---
title: "Oracle"
date: 2012-06-23 04:52:23 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: oracle
status: publish
---

**what is SQLCODE and SQLERRM** The function `SQLCODE` returns the number code of the most recent exception. For internal exceptions, `SQLCODE` returns the number of the associated Oracle error. The number that `SQLCODE` returns is negative unless the Oracle error is no data found, in which case `SQLCODE` returns `+100`. For user-defined exceptions, `SQLCODE` returns `+1`, or a value you assign if the exception is associated with an Oracle error number through pragma `EXCEPTION_INIT`.     **What is the difference between Views and Materialized Views in Oracle?** Materialised view - a table on a disk that contains the result set of a query Non-materiased view - a query that pulls data from the underlying table **What does Opening a cursor do ?** \- It executes the query and identifies the Result set **What does Fetching a cursor do ?** \- It reads the Result Set row by row. **What does Closing a cursor do ?** \- It clears the private SQL area and de-allocates the memory. **What are Cursor Variables ?** \- Also called REF CURSORS. \- They are not tied to a single SQL. They point to any SQL area dynamically. \- Advantage is : You can declare variables at Client side and open them Server side. You can thus centralize data retrieval. **Why use Cursor Variables?** \- You can pass cursor RESULT SETS between PL/SQL stored programs and clients. **What are SQLCODE and SQLERRM ?** \- Oracle Error code and detailed error message \- They are actually functions with no arguments, that can be used only in procedural statements ( not SQL) **What are Pseudocolumns ?** \- They are not actual columns. They are like Functions without arguments. \- They typically give a different value for each row. \- Examples: ROWNUM, NEXTVAL, ROWID, VERSION_STARTTIME **Why use Truncate over Delete while deleting all rows ?** \- Truncate is efficient. Triggers are not fired. \- It deallocates space (Unless REUSE STORAGE is given). **What is a ROWID composed of ?** \- It's a hexadecimal string representing the address of a row. Prior to Oracle 8, it's a restricted rowid comprising block.row.file. Extended rowid ( the default on higher releases) comprises data object number as well ( comprising the segment number ). **What is the use of a ROWID ?** \- Retrieve data faster with ROWID. \- Shows you the physical arrangement of rows in the table. \- Also unique identifier for each row. **Can rows from two different tables have the same ROWID?** \- Possible, if they are in a Cluster **What is ROWNUM and ROW_NUMBER ?** \- ROWNUM is a pseudocolumn which is the number assigned to each row retrieved. \- ROW_NUMBER is an analytic function which does something similar, but has all the capabilities of PARTITION BY and ORDER BY clauses.. **What is an inline view?** \- It's not a schema object \- It's a subquery in the FROM clause with an alias that can be used as a view within the SQL statement. **What are Nested and Correlated subqueries ?** \- The subquery used in WHERE clause is a nested subquery. \- If this subquery refers to any column in the parent statement, it becomes a correlated subquery. **How do you retrieve a dropped table in 10g?** \- FLASHBACK table <tabname> to BEFORE DROP **What are PSPs?** \- PL/SQL Server Pages. Web pages developed in PL/SQL **What is an index-organized table?** \- The physical arrangement of rows of this table changes with the indexed column. \- It's. in-short, a table stored like an index itself. **What is an implicit cursor?** \- Oracle opens an implicit cursor to process each SQL statement not associated with an explicit cursor. **Name a few implicit cursor attributes.** \- %FOUND, %ROWCOUNT, %NOTFOUND, %ISOPEN, %BULK_ROWCOUNT, %BULK_EXCEPTIONS That's from me now.
