---
title: "Other"
date: 2012-09-20 05:20:44 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: other
status: publish
---

issue criticality blank page issue trouble shooting 

## The Difference Between XML and HTML

XML is not a replacement for HTML. XML and HTML were designed with different goals: 

  * XML was designed to transport and store data, with focus on what data is
  * HTML was designed to display data, with focus on how data looks

HTML is about displaying information, while XML is about carrying information.  XML was designed to describe data and to focus on what data is. HTML was designed to display data and to focus on how data looks .  
---  
HTML is about displaying information, while XML is about describing information.  
problem with manager? **work under pressure** As being a person he has a capability of to do all the things. Even though he has a capability to do that work he may not complete that work in time. In my view, as a person he can complete his works when he has a pressure regarding that work. Otherwise he may do neglect regarding that work. So, I can do my work under pressure. It also gives me chance to measure myself and gives opportunity to prove my self in this challenging world. So it boost me to work with passion if I want to challenge other one. So like to work in pressure. 1\. “I most definitely can. In my current position, I can be faced with stressful situations that require me to work under pressure on a daily basis and have since learned to manage stress. Now it’s just part of the job that I do well.” 2\. “Yes, I actually enjoy working under pressure, though I believe that proper planning and good time management will greatly reduce any alarming deadlines.” 3\. “Yes, I work well under pressure. But I believe that by simply reacting to a situation, you are creating the pressure. Instead of reacting to a problem, I will review the facts at a heightened pace and respond to the situation with a solution all while keeping a clear head.”
