---
title: "Asp.net IQ"
date: 2012-09-11 10:56:10 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: asp-net-iq
status: publish
---

### [Exploring  _Session in ASP.NET_ ](<http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/32545/Exploring-Session-in-ASP-Net>)

ASP.NET session state supports several different storage options for session data. Each option is identified by a value in the [SessionStateMode](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.sessionstate.sessionstatemode\(v=vs.100\).aspx>) enumeration. The following list describes the available session state modes: 

  * InProc mode, which stores session state in memory on the Web server. This is the default.
  * StateServer mode, which stores session state in a separate process called the ASP.NET state service. This ensures that session state is preserved if the Web application is restarted and also makes session state available to multiple Web servers in a Web farm.
  * SQLServer mode stores session state in a SQL Server database. This ensures that session state is preserved if the Web application is restarted and also makes session state available to multiple Web servers in a Web farm.
  * Custom mode, which enables you to specify a custom storage provider.
  * Off mode, which disables session state.

<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms178586(v=vs.100).aspx> **Custom mode** specifies that you want to store session state data using a custom session state store provider. When you configure your ASP.NET application with a[Mode](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.sessionstate.httpsessionstate.mode\(v=vs.100\).aspx>) of Custom, you must specify the type of the session state store provider using the providers sub-element of the [sessionState](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/h6bb9cz9\(v=vs.100\).aspx>) configuration element. You specify the provider type using an add sub-element and include both a type attribute that specifies the provider's type name and a name attribute that specifies the provider instance name. The name of the provider instance is then supplied to the customProvider attribute of the [sessionState](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/h6bb9cz9\(v=vs.100\).aspx>) element to configure ASP.NET session state to use that provider instance for storing and retrieving session data. The following example shows elements from a Web.config file that specify that ASP.NET session state use a custom session state store provider: 
    
    
    <configuration>
      <connectionStrings>
        <add name="OdbcSessionServices" 
          connectionString="DSN=SessionState;" />
      </connectionStrings>
    
      <system.web>
        <sessionState 
          mode="Custom"
          customProvider="OdbcSessionProvider">
          <providers>
            <add name="OdbcSessionProvider"
              type="Samples.AspNet.Session.OdbcSessionStateStore"
              connectionStringName="OdbcSessionServices" 
              writeExceptionsToEventLog="false" />
          </providers>
        </sessionState>
      </system.web>
    </configuration>

\--------------------------------------------------- **TRUNCATE V/s DELETE** **Truncate** | **Delete**  
---|---  
TRUNCATE is a DDL command | DELETE is a DML command  
TRUNCATE TABLE always locks the table and page but not each row | DELETE statement is executed using a row lock, each row in the table is locked for deletion  
Cannot use Where Condition | We can specify filters in where clause  
It Removes all the data | It deletes specified data if where condition exists.  
TRUNCATE TABLE cannot activate a trigger because the operation does not log individual row deletions. | Delete activates a trigger because the operation are logged individually.  
Faster in performance wise, because it is minimally logged in transaction log. | Slower than truncate because, it maintain logs for every record  
|   
Drop all object’s statistics and marks like High Water Mark free extents and leave the object really empty with the first extent. zero pages are left in the table | keeps object’s statistics and all allocated space. After a DELETE statement is executed,the table can still contain empty pages.  
TRUNCATE TABLE removes the data by deallocating the data pages used to store the table data and records only the page deallocations in the transaction lo | The DELETE statement removes rows one at a time and records an entry in the transaction log for each deleted row  
If the table contains an identity column, the counter for that column is reset to the seed value that is defined for the column | DELETE retain the identity  
Restrictions on using Truncate Statement 1\. Are referenced by a FOREIGN KEY constraint. 2\. Participate in an indexed view. 3\. Are published by using transactional replication or merge replication. | Delete works at row level, thus row level constrains apply  
\------------------ 

### AFTER Triggers

AFTER triggers are executed after the action of the INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement is performed. Specifying AFTER is the same as specifying FOR, which is the only option available in earlier versions of Microsoft SQL Server. AFTER triggers can be specified only on tables. 

### INSTEAD OF Triggers

INSTEAD OF triggers are executed in place of the usual triggering action. INSTEAD OF triggers can also be defined on views with one or more base tables, where they can extend the types of updates a view can support. For more information about AFTER and INSTEAD OF triggers, see [DML Trigger Planning Guidelines](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms190267\(v=sql.105\).aspx>). 

### CLR Triggers

A CLR Trigger can be either an AFTER or INSTEAD OF trigger. A CLR trigger can also be a DDL trigger. Instead of executing a Transact-SQL stored procedure, a CLR trigger executes one or more methods written in managed code that are members of an assembly created in the .NET Framework and uploaded in SQL Server. For more information, see [Programming CLR Triggers](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms179562\(v=sql.105\).aspx>). 

###  Instead Of Triggers

These can be used as an interceptor for anything that anyonr tried to do on our table or view. If you define an  _Instead Of trigger_ on a table for the Delete operation, they try to delete rows, and they will not actually get deleted (unless you issue another delete instruction from within the trigger) INSTEAD OF TRIGGERS can be classified further into three types as:- (a) INSTEAD OF INSERT Trigger. (b) INSTEAD OF UPDATE Trigger. (c) INSTEAD OF DELETE Trigger. 

# HttpContext Class

Classes that inherit the [IHttpModule](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.ihttpmodule.aspx>) and [IHttpHandler](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.ihttphandler.aspx>) interfaces are provided a reference to an HttpContext object for the current HTTP request. The object provides access to the intrinsic [Request](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.httpcontext.request.aspx>), [Response](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.httpcontext.response.aspx>), and [Server](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.httpcontext.server.aspx>) properties for the request. 

# IHttpHandler Interface

You can write custom HTTP handlers to process specific, predefined types of HTTP requests in any Common Language Specification (CLS) compliant language. Executable code defined in the HttpHandler classes, rather than conventional ASP or ASP.NET Web pages, responds to these specific requests. HTTP handlers give you a means of interacting with the low-level request and response services of the IIS Web server and provide functionality much like ISAPI extensions but with a simpler programming model. If your handler will access session state values, it must implement the [IRequiresSessionState](<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.sessionstate.irequiressessionstate.aspx>) interface (a marker interface with no methods). 

# [Why is Multiple Inheritance not allowed in Java or C#?](<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/995255/why-is-multiple-inheritance-not-allowed-in-java-or-c>)

Multiple inheritance of  _implementation_ is what is not allowed. The problem is that the compiler/runtime cannot figure out what to do if you have a Cowboy and an Artist class, both with implementations for the draw() method, and then you try to create a new CowboyArtist type. What happens when you call the draw() method? Is someone lying dead in the street, or do you have a lovely watercolor? I believe it's called the double diamond inheritance problem. \------------------------------------- The short answer is: because the language designers decided not to. Basically, it seemed that both the .NET and Java designers did not allow multiple inheritance because they reasoned that adding MI **added too much complexity** to the languages while providing **too little benefit**. For a more fun and in-depth read, there are some articles available on the web with interviews of some of the language designers. For example, for .NET, Chris Brumme (who worked at MS on the CLR) has explained the reasons why they decided not to: 

>   1. Different languages actually have different expectations for how MI works. For example, how conflicts are resolved and whether duplicate bases are merged or redundant. Before we can implement MI in the CLR, we have to do a survey of all the languages, figure out the common concepts, and decide how to express them in a language-neutral manner. We would also have to decide whether MI belongs in the CLS and what this would mean for languages that don't want this concept (presumably VB.NET, for example). Of course, that's the business we are in as a common language runtime, but we haven't got around to doing it for MI yet.
>   2. The number of places where MI is truly appropriate is actually quite small. In many cases, multiple interface inheritance can get the job done instead. In other cases, you may be able to use encapsulation and delegation. If we were to add a slightly different construct, like mixins, would that actually be more powerful?
>   3. Multiple implementation inheritance injects a lot of complexity into the implementation. This complexity impacts casting, layout, dispatch, field access, serialization, identity comparisons, verifiability, reflection, generics, and probably lots of other places.
> 


[You can read the full article here.](<http://blogs.msdn.com/csharpfaq/archive/2004/03/07/85562.aspx>) For Java, you can read [this article](<http://www.geekinterview.com/question_details/17127>): 

> The reasons for omitting multiple inheritance from the Java language mostly stem from the "simple, object oriented, and familiar" goal. As a simple language, Java's creators wanted a language that most developers could grasp without extensive training. To that end, they worked to make the language as similar to C++ as possible (familiar) without carrying over C++'s unnecessary complexity (simple). In the designers' opinion, multiple inheritance causes more problems and confusion than it solves. So they cut multiple inheritance from the language (just as they cut operator overloading). The designers' extensive C++ experience taught them that multiple inheritance just wasn't worth the headache. 
> 
> ### [Difference between Interface and Abstract Class](<http://dng-oops.blogspot.in/2007/05/difference-between-interface-and.html>)
> 
> ###### Interfaces vs. Abstract Classes  
>   
> ---  
> **Feature** | **Interface** | **Abstract class**  
> **Multiple inheritance** | A class may implement several interfaces. | A class may extend only one abstract class.  
> **Default implementation** | An interface cannot provide any code at all, much less default code. | An abstract class can provide complete code, default code, and/or just stubs that have to be overridden.  
> Constants | Static final constants only, can use them without qualification in classes that implement the interface. On the other paw, these unqualified names pollute the namespace. You can use them and it is not obvious where they are coming from since the qualification is optional. | Both instance and static constants are possible. Both static and instance intialiser code are also possible to compute the constants.  
> Third party convenience | An interface implementation may be added to any existing third party class. | A third party class must be rewritten to extend only from the abstract class.  
> **Is-a vs -able or can-do** | Interfaces are often used to describe the peripheral abilities of a class, not its central identity, e.g. an Automobile class might implement the Recyclable interface, which could apply to many otherwise totally unrelated objects. | An abstract class defines the core identity of its descendants. If you defined a Dog abstract class then Damamation descendants are Dogs, they are not merely dogable. Implemented interfaces enumerate the general things a class can do, not the things a class is.  
> Plug-in | You can write a new replacement module for an interface that contains not one stick of code in common with the existing implementations. When you implement the interface, you start from scratch without any default implementation. You have to obtain your tools from other classes; nothing comes with the interface other than a few constants. This gives you freedom to implement a radically different internal design. | You must use the abstract class as-is for the code base, with all its attendant baggage, good or bad. The abstract class author has imposed structure on you. Depending on the cleverness of the author of the abstract class, this may be good or bad. Another issue that's important is what I call "heterogeneous vs. homogeneous." If implementors/subclasses are homogeneous, tend towards an abstract base class. If they are heterogeneous, use an interface. (Now all I have to do is come up with a good definition of hetero/homogeneous in this context.) If the various objects are all of-a-kind, and share a common state and behavior, then tend towards a common base class. If all they share is a set of method signatures, then tend towards an interface.  
> Homogeneity | If all the various implementations share is the method signatures, then an interface works best. | If the various implementations are all of a kind and share a common status and behavior, usually an abstract class works best.  
> Maintenance | If your client code talks only in terms of an interface, you can easily change the concrete implementation behind it, using a factory method. | Just like an interface, if your client code talks only in terms of an abstract class, you can easily change the concrete implementation behind it, using a factory method.  
> **Speed** | Slow, requires extra indirection to find the corresponding method in the actual class. Modern JVMs are discovering ways to reduce this speed penalty. | Fast  
> Terseness | The constant declarations in an interface are all presumed public static final, so you may leave that part out. You can't call any methods to compute the initial values of your constants. You need not declare individual methods of an interface abstract. They are all presumed so. | You can put shared code into an abstract class, where you cannot into an interface. If interfaces want to share code, you will have to write other bubblegum to arrange that. You may use methods to compute the initial values of your constants and variables, both instance and static. You must declare all the individual methods of an abstract class abstract.  
> Adding functionality | If you add a new method to an interface, you must track down all implementations of that interface in the universe and provide them with a concrete implementation of that method. | If you add a new method to an abstract class, you have the option of providing a default implementation of it. Then all existing code will continue to work without change.
