---
title: "ASP.NET-2"
date: 2012-06-21 18:00:58 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: asp-net-2
status: publish
---

[techinterviews](<http://www.techinterviews.com/aspnet-interview-questions> "techinterviews")

     1. **Describe the role of _inetinfo.exe, aspnet_isapi.dll_ and _aspnet_wp.exe_ in the page loading process**. inetinfo.exe is theMicrosoft IIS server running, handling ASP.NET requests among other things.When an ASP.NET request is received (usually a file with .aspx extension),the ISAPI filter aspnet_isapi.dll takes care of it by passing the request tothe actual worker process aspnet_wp.exe.

 
  1. **What’s the difference between Response.Write() andResponse.Output.Write()?** The latter one allows you to write formattedoutput.
  2. **What methods are fired during the page load?** Init() - when the pageis instantiated, Load() - when the page is loaded into server memory,PreRender() \- the brief moment before the page is displayed to the user asHTML, Unload() \- when page finishes loading.
  3. **Where does the Web page belong in the .NET Framework class hierarchy?** System.Web.UI.Page
  4. **Where do you store the information about the user’s locale?** System.Web.UI.Page.Culture
  5. **What’s the difference between Codebehind="MyCode.aspx.cs" andSrc="MyCode.aspx.cs"?** CodeBehind is relevant to Visual Studio.NET only.
  6. **What’s a bubbled event?** When you have a complex control, likeDataGrid, writing an event processing routine for each object (cell, button,row, etc.) is quite tedious. The controls can bubble up their eventhandlers, allowing the main DataGrid event handler to take care of itsconstituents.
  7. **Suppose you want a certain ASP.NET function executed on MouseOver overa certain button. Where do you add an event handler?** It’s the Attributesproperty, the Add function inside that property. So 

> btnSubmit.Attributes.Add("onMouseOver","someClientCode();")

A simple”Javascript:ClientCode();” in the button control of the .aspx page will attach the handler (javascript function)to the onmouseover event.
  8. **What data type does the RangeValidator control support?** Integer,String and Date.
  9. **Where would you use an iHTTPModule, and what are the limitations of any approach you might take in implementing one?** One of ASP.NET’s most useful features is the [extensibility of the HTTP pipeline](<http://www.dotnet247.com/247reference/articles/1/8066.aspx>), the path that data takes between client and server. You can use them to extend your ASP.NET applications by adding pre- and post-processing to each HTTP request coming into your application. For example, if you wanted custom authentication facilities for your application, the best technique would be to intercept the request when it comes in and process the request in a custom HTTP module.
  10. **Explain what a diffgram is, and a good use for one?** A DiffGram is an XML format that is used to identify current and original versions of data elements. The DataSet uses the DiffGram format to load and persist its contents, and to serialize its contents for transport across a network connection. When a DataSet is written as a DiffGram, it populates the DiffGram with all the necessary information to accurately recreate the contents, though not the schema, of the DataSet, including column values from both the Original and Current row versions, row error information, and row order.
