---
title: "jQuery"
date: 2012-07-25 06:27:19 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: jquery
status: publish
---

Questions : 1 What is jQuery ? Answers : 1 It's very simple but most valuable Question on jQuery means jQuery is a fast and concise JavaScript Library that simplifies HTML document traversing, animating, event handling, and Ajax interactions for rapid web development. jQuery is designed to change the way that you write JavaScript. Jquery is build library for javascript no need to write your own functions or script jquery all ready done for you Questions : 2 How you will use Jquery means requirement needed for using jquery Answers : 2 Nothing more need to do just olny download jquery library(.js file) from any of the jquery site Download jquery and just linked with your html pages like all other javascript file like below : Questions : 3 what the use of $ symbol in Jquery Answers : 3 $ Symbol is just replacement of jquery means at the place of $ you may use jquery hence $ symbol is used for indication that this line used for jquery Questions : 4 How do you select an item using css class or ID and get the value by use of jquery Answers : 4 If an element of html like 

, 

or any tag have ID MyId and class used MyClass then we select the element by below jquery code $('#MyId') for ID and for classs $('.MyClass') and for value var myValue = $('#MyId').val(); // get the value in var Myvalue by id Or for set the value in selected item $('#MyId').val("print me"); // set the value of a form input Questions : 5 How to get the server response from an AJAX request using Jquery? Answers : 5 When invoking functions that have asynchronous behavior We must provide a callback function to capture the desired result. This is especially important with AJAX in the browser because when a remote request is made, it is indeterminate when the response will be received. Below an example of making an AJAX call and alerting the response (or error): $.ajax({ url: 'pcdsEmpRecords.php', success: function(response) { alert(response); }, error: function(xhr) { alert('Error! Status = ' + xhr.status); } }); Questions : 6 How do you update ajax response with id " resilts" Answers : 6 By using below code we can update div content where id 'results' with ajax response function updateStatus() { $.ajax({ url: 'pcdsEmpRecords.php', success: function(response) { // update div id Results $('#results').html(response); } }); } Questions : 7 How do You disable or enable a form element? Answers : 7 There are two ways to disable or enable form elements. Set the 'disabled' attribute to true or false: // Disable #pcds $('#pcds').attr('disabled', true); // Enable #pcds $('#pcds').attr('disabled', false); Add or remove the 'disabled' attribute: // Disable #pcds $("#pcds").attr('disabled', 'disabled'); // Enable #x $("#pcds").removeAttr('disabled'); Questions : 8 How do you check or uncheck a checkbox input or radio button? Answers : 8 There are two ways to check or uncheck a checkbox or radio button. Set the 'checked' attribute to true or false. // Check #pcds $('#pcds').attr('checked', true); // Uncheck #pcds $('#pcds').attr('checked', false); Add or remove the 'checked' attribute: // Check #pcds $("#pcds").attr('checked', 'checked'); // Uncheck #pcds $("#pcds").removeAttr('checked'); Questions : 9 How do you get the text value of a selected option? Answers : 9 Select elements typically have two values that you want to access. First there's the value to be sent to the server, which is easy: $("#pcdsselect").val(); // => 1 The second is the text value of the select. For example, using the following select box: Mr Mrs Ms Dr Prof If you wanted to get the string "Mr" if the first option was selected (instead of just "1"), you would do that in the following way: $("#mpcdsselect option:selected").text(); // => "Mr" JavaScript interview questions and answers By admin | May 28, 2006 What’s relationship between JavaScript and ECMAScript? - ECMAScript is yet another name for JavaScript (other names include LiveScript). The current JavaScript that you see supported in browsers is ECMAScript revision 3. What are JavaScript types? - Number, String, Boolean, Function, Object, Null, Undefined. How do you convert numbers between different bases in JavaScript? - Use the parseInt() function, that takes a string as the first parameter, and the base as a second parameter. So to convert hexadecimal 3F to decimal, use parseInt ("3F", 16); What does isNaN function do? - Return true if the argument is not a number. What is negative infinity? - It’s a number in JavaScript, derived by dividing negative number by zero. What boolean operators does JavaScript support? - &&, || and ! What does "1"+2+4 evaluate to? - Since 1 is a string, everything is a string, so the result is 124. How about 2+5+"8"? - Since 2 and 5 are integers, this is number arithmetic, since 8 is a string, it’s concatenation, so 78 is the result. What looping structures are there in JavaScript? - for, while, do-while loops, but no foreach. How do you create a new object in JavaScript? - var obj = new Object(); or var obj = {}; How do you assign object properties? - obj["age"] = 17 or obj.age = 17. What’s a way to append a value to an array? - arr[arr.length] = value; What is this keyword? - It refers to the current object. \---------------------------------- Q.What is jQuery? A.jQuery is a light weight JavaScript library which provides fast and easy way of HTML DOM traversing and manipulation,its event handling,its client side animations, etc. One of the greatest features of jQuery is that jQuery supports an efficient way to implement AJAX applications because of its light weight nature and make normalize and efficient web programs. Q.How to use jQuery? A.jQuery can be easily used with other libraries so it should work out of the box with simple and complex JavaScript and Ajax.. Q.How to use jQuery library in our ASP.Net project? A.Download the latest jQuery library from jQuery.com and include the reference to the jQuery library file in our ASPX page. $(document).ready(function() { alert('test'); }); Q. With jQuery UI 1.7 being released in the last few days, what do you see as the key parts of jQuery UI 1.7? What are you most proud of out of that release? A.The one thing I’m most proud of is that our framework has matured so much since 1.5. We have taken great care to unify our API, fix hundreds of compatibility and behavior issues, and now we truly have a foundation to build upon without needing to rewrite the core functionality again and again. This will allow us to push our features in the next releases in literally no time. Q.What were the biggest challenges of getting the 1.7 release out there? A.Our test coverage is still incomplete, and with every fixed bug, we introduced 2 others, which made the arrival at a stable level extremely difficult. Every week, there were some 50-100 bugs entered in the bugtracker, and there was literally no end. Luckily, we were able to triage the bugs to critical and blockers and solve these in time for a release. You have to have a lot of guts to push out a release that’s still imperfect - but an imperfect release is better than one that gets delayed for months. You can always roll out 1.7.1. Q.Jumping off of jQuery UI for a second, Do you “release early, release often” with all of your projects? What are your thoughts on that strategy? A.Speaking for myself, I often release too early. That has been a problem in the past, when we released versions as stable that weren’t, for instance. So it’s important to find a combination of both - a stable release must be stable, while development cannot be halted or blocked through stubborn processes. A labs section is great in that way - it allows developers to contribute freely and plan on an open canvas, with early preview releases, and the work can later be merged back. Q.Have any of your startup projects failed dismally - if so, why and how did you learn from them? A.A lot of my side projects failed, as a matter of fact, while others succeeded. Usually, the reason why some project fails is not a technical one, but the fact that one didn’t build meta data around it. That means a dedicated site, documentation, instructions. Q.Mac, Windows or Linux? Why do you love this platform while using jQuery? A.I switched to Mac hardware around a year ago and I’m totally in love with it. All components work together nicely, and so far, I never had to return my Macbook Pro to the Apple Store because of an issue. However, I’m still using Windows through Parallels because OSX, while visually nice and stable, has fundamental usability flaws.One of these flaws is the Finder. I recently worked on the jQuery UI Selectables in the labs version, and once again saw that the Finder had great flaws when it comes down to selection. For instance, if you select multiple items and click on one of them, the multiple selection isn’t cleared. Also, my tools that I love for windows simply don’t have an alternative yet . Q.What are your tools of choice to get the jQuery job done? A.For editing files, I love the e texteditor (yep, the name is “e”). It basically started as a textmate clone for windows, but since then grew into something much greater. One of the features I can’t live without now is there great multiple selection support. Hold down CTRL, select a couple words through double clicking and then type over all of them.On a sidenote, on one of my talks in Japan the audience asked why I’m so insane to use a Textmate clone through an emulated Windows on OSX - I showed them this exact feature, and they were all amazed. Q.Back onto jQuery UI… Can you see jQuery UI making more of an impression in the future, lead by the current successes of jQuery? A.jQuery, other than jQuery UI, can be useful almost everytime. jQuery UI gives you a specific set of user interface widgets and behaviours, and many people think of it as loosing a kind of freedom. On the other hand, there’s definitely some connection - if you’re using Prototype already, and you’re looking for an UI framework, your choice is most often script.aculo.us. If you’re using jQuery, why not use the official side project? Q.Whats next on the hitlist with jQuery UI? A.There’s a lot of movement right now. We finally pushed out 1.7 3 days ago, which we believe is a solid foundation for everything that’s coming in in the next couple of months. While 1.7 was a stability and foundation release, the next releases will concentrate around features, so expect to see many more components soon. Some examples are the colorpicker, menu, grid, tooltip and tree widgets. Q.Is it too early to discuss jQuery UI 1.8? A.There’s a lot on our list for the year. Filament Group did a great job to start a list of all widgets they could imagine being part of jQuery UI, which can be found and discussed in the jQuery UI planning wiki at http://wiki.jqueryui.com. There’s no definite roadmap for 1.8 yet, but some components are likely to make it into the next release. For instance, widgets that are already being worked on (grid, menu), as well as widgets that we had to kick out of 1.6/1.7 because they weren’t stable enough (spinner, colorpicker, autocomplete). It will be a huge feature release! Q.If you could give one tip to any new budding jQuery UI developers, what would it be? A. For jQuery UI, we’re trying to take the same path than jQuery, and people that are restricted to thinking in classical OOP patterns will have a problem. If you think about it freely and give the functional, event-driven and progressive approach a try, you’ll find yourself getting the work done with jQuery UI in a fraction of the time needed than with other frameworks. Q.what is jQuery connect? A.It is a jquery plugin which enables us to connect a function to another function. It is like assigning a handler for another function. This situation happens when you are using any javascript plugins and you want to execute some function when ever some function is executed from the plugin. This we can solve using jquery connect function. Q.Different ways of using $.connect function in jQuery? A.The syntax of connect function is $.connect(sourceObj/*object*/, sourceFunc/*string*/, callObj/*object*/, callFunc/*string or Func*/) sourceObj(optional) is the object of the source function to which we want to connect sourceFunc is the function name to which we want to connect callObj(optional) is the object which we want to use for the handler function callFunc is the function that we want to execute when sourceFunc is executed. Here sourceObj, callObj are optional for the global functions. suppose if your sourceFunc is global function then no need to pass the sourceObj or you can use null or self suppose if your callObj is global function then no need to pass the callObj or you can use null or self ex: // fun1, fun2 are global functions 1\. $.connect('fun1',fun2) 2\. $.connect(null,'fun1',fun2) 3\. $.connect(self,'fun1',fun2) 4\. $.connect('fun1',null,fun2) 5\. $.connect('fun1',self,fun2) 6\. $.connect(self,'fun1',null,fun2) Q.Explain the features of jQuery? A.Features of jQuery are : 1.Effects and animations 2.Ajax 3.Extensibility 4.DOM element selections functions 5.Events 6.CSS manipulation 7.Utilities - such as browser version and the each function. 8.avaScript Plugins 9.DOM traversal and modification Q.Explain the concepts of "$ function" in jQuery with an example? A.The type of a function is "function". There are a lot of anonymous functions is jquery. $(document).ready(function() {}); $("a").click(function() {}); $.ajax({ url: "someurl.php", success: function() {} }); Q.Why is jQuery better than JavaScript? A. 1.JQuery is great library for developing ajax based application. 2.It helps the programmers to keep code simple and concise and reusable. 3.jQuery library simplifies the process of traversal of HTML DOM tree. 4.jQuery can also handle events, perform animation, and add the Ajax support in web applications. Q.Explain how jQuery Works? // You can write the code here xyz Q.When can you use jQuery? A.JQuery can be used to 1.apply CSS 2.call functions on events 3.traverse the documents 4.manipulation purpose and 5.to add effects too. Q.What are the advantages of jQuery. A.The advantages of using jQuery are: 1.JavaScript enhancement without the overhead of learning new syntax 2.Ability to keep the code simple, clear, readable and reusable 3.Eradication of the requirement of writing repetitious and complex loops and DOM scripting library calls \-------------- jQuery Interview Questions And Answers Questions : 1 What is jQuery ? Answers : 1 It's very simple but most valuable Question on jQuery means jQuery is a fast and concise JavaScript Library that simplifies HTML document traversing, animating, event handling, and Ajax interactions for rapid web development. jQuery is designed to change the way that you write JavaScript. Jquery is build library for javascript no need to write your own functions or script jquery all ready done for you Questions : 2 How you will use Jquery means requirement needed for using jquery Answers : 2 Nothing more need to do just olny download jquery library(.js file) from any of the jquery site Download jquery and just linked with your html pages like all other javascript file like below : Questions : 3 what the use of $ symbol in Jquery Answers : 3 $ Symbol is just replacement of jquery means at the place of $ you may use jquery hence $ symbol is used for indication that this line used for jquery Questions : 4 How do you select an item using css class or ID and get the value by use of jquery Answers : 4 If an element of html like 

, 

or any tag have ID MyId and class used MyClass then we select the element by below jquery code $('#MyId') for ID and for classs $('.MyClass') and for value var myValue = $('#MyId').val(); // get the value in var Myvalue by id Or for set the value in selected item $('#MyId').val("print me"); // set the value of a form input
