---
title: "WCF"
date: 2012-06-25 09:19:38 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: wcf
status: publish
---

WCF Exception Handling

<http://www.olegsych.com/2008/07/simplifying-wcf-using-exceptions-as-faults/>

<http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/555415/A-Beginners-Tutorial-for-Understanding-Exception-H>

### [What is HttpHandlers?](<http://aspnet2008.blogspot.in/2012/06/what-is-httphandlers.html>)

The low level Request and Response API to service incoming Http requests are Http Handlers in Asp.Net. All handlers implement the IHttpHandler interface, which is located in the System.Web namespace. Handlers are somewhat analogous to Internet Server Application Programming Interface (ISAPI) extensions.

I will explain how to extend the functionality of web server by using Http handlers and How to protect files using Http handlers.

**Methods in Http Handler**

The following are the methods in Http Handlers.

Method Name |  Description  
---|---  
ProcessRequest |  Used to call Http Requests.  
IsReusable |  To check the reusability of same instance handler with a new request of same type.  
  
**Configuring HTTP Handlers**

The configuration section handler is responsible for mapping incoming URLs to the IHttpHandler or IHttpHandlerFactory class. It can be declared at the computer, site, or application level. Subdirectories inherit these settings.

Administrators use the tag directive to configure the section. directives are interpreted and processed in a top-down sequential order. Use the following syntax for the section handler:

**Creating HTTP Handlers**

To create an HTTP handler, you must implement the IHttpHandler interface. The IHttpHandler interface has one method and one property with the following signatures:

void ProcessRequest(HttpContext); bool IsReusable {get;}

**Customized Http Handler**

By customizing http handlers, new functionalities can be added to Web Server. Files with new extensions like .text for a text file can be handled by Web Server by using http handlers. The future of customization can lead to hosting .jsp pages in IIS by finding adequate ISAPI extensions. The following steps are involved to create customized http handler:

  1. Create a C# class library as "Examplehandler"
  2. Name class as "Handlerclass.cs"



using System; using System.Web; using System.Web.SessionState; namespace ExampleHandler { /// /// Summary description for Examplehandler. /// public class Handlerclass : IHttpHandler { public Handlerclass() { // // TODO: Add constructor logic here // } #region Implementation of IHttpHandler public void ProcessRequest(System.Web.HttpContext context) { HttpResponse objResponse = context.Response ; HttpSessionState objSession = context.Session ; objResponse.Write(" Hello World from Handler") ; objResponse.Write("") ; } public bool IsReusable { get { return true; } } #endregion } } Compile it and place it in the bin directory of TestApp project. Step 2 

# Register this handler by adding the following text in the web.config file:

### [What is Generics?](<http://aspnet2008.blogspot.in/2012/06/what-is-generics.html>)

Generics are classes, structures, interfaces, and methods that have placeholders (type parameters) for one or more of the types that they store or use. A generic collection class might use a type parameter as a placeholder for the type of objects that it stores; the type parameters appear as the types of its fields and the parameter types of its methods. A generic method might use its type parameter as the type of its return value or as the type of one of its formal parameters 

public class Generic

{ public T Field; } 

public static void Main()

{ Generic g = new Generic(); g.Field = "A string"; Console.WriteLine("Generic.Field = \"{0}\"", g.Field); Console.WriteLine("Generic.Field.GetType() = {0}", g.Field.GetType().FullName); } 

Generic classes encapsulate operations that are not specific to any particular data type. The most common use for generic classes is with the collections like linked lists, hash tables, stacks, queues, trees and so on where operations such as adding and removing items from the collection are performed in more or less the same way regardless of the type of the data being stored.

The advantage of generics is better type safety, code reusability and better performance.

Generics are most commonly used to create a collection

### [What is Microsoft SharePoint Portal Server?](<http://aspnet2008.blogspot.in/2009/08/what-is-microsoft-sharepoint-portal.html>)

SharePoint Portal Server is a portal server that connects people, teams, and knowledge across business processes. SharePoint Portal Server integrates information from various systems into one secure solution through single sign-on and enterprise application integration capabilities. It provides flexible deployment and management tools, and facilitates end-to-end collaboration through data aggregation, organization, and searching. SharePoint Portal Server also enables users to quickly find relevant information through customization and personalization of portal content and layout as well as through audience targeting. 

### [What is Microsoft Windows SharePoint Services?](<http://aspnet2008.blogspot.in/2009/08/what-is-microsoft-windows-sharepoint.html>)

Windows SharePoint Services is the solution that enables you to create Web sites for information sharing and document collaboration. Windows SharePoint Services " a key piece of the information worker infrastructure delivered in [Microsoft](<http://www.kreslavsky.com/category/microsoft>) Windows [Server 2003](<http://www.kreslavsky.com/category/microsoft/server-2003>) " provides additional functionality to the [Microsoft](<http://www.kreslavsky.com/category/microsoft>) Office system and other desktop applications, and it serves as a platform for application development. Office SharePoint Server 2007 builds on top of Windows SharePoint Services 3.0 to provide additional capabilities including collaboration, portal, search, enterprise content management, business process and forms, and business intelligence. 

### [What are the advantages of jQuery](<http://aspnet2008.blogspot.in/2009/08/what-are-advantages-of-jquery.html>)

The advantages of using jQuery are: 1\. JavaScript enhancement without the overhead of learning new syntax 2\. Ability to keep the code simple, clear, readable and reusable 3\. Eradication of the requirement of writing repetitious and complex loops and DOM scripting library calls 

### [What is JQuery](<http://aspnet2008.blogspot.in/2009/08/what-is-jquery.html>)

JQuery is a light weight JavaScript library which provides fast and easy way of HTML DOM traversing and manipulation, its event handling, its client side animations, etc. One of the greatest features of jQuery is that jQuery supports an efficient way to implement AJAX applications because of its light weight nature and make normalize and efficient web programs. 

### [The IHttpHandler and IHttpHandlerFactory interfaces ?](<http://aspnet2008.blogspot.in/2008/11/ihttphandler-and-ihttphandlerfactory.html>)

The IHttpHandler interface is implemented by all the handlers. The interface consists of one property called IsReusable. The IsReusable property gets a value indicating whether another request can use the IHttpHandler instance. The method ProcessRequest() allows you to process the current request. This is the core place where all your code goes. This method receives a parameter of type HttpContext using which you can access the intrinsic objects such as Request and Response. The IHttpHandlerFactory interface consists of two methods - GetHandler and ReleaseHandler. The GetHandler() method instantiates the required HTTP handler based on some condition and returns it back to ASP.NET. The ReleaseHandler() method allows the factory to reuse an existing handler. 

### [Does .NET CLR and SQL SERVER run in different process?](<http://aspnet2008.blogspot.in/2008/11/does-net-clr-and-sql-server-run-in.html>)

Dot Net CLR and all .net realtes application and Sql Server run in same process or we can say that that on the same address because there is no issue of speed because if these two process are run in different process then there may be a speed issue created one process goes fast and other slow may create the problem.
