---
title: "Team Lead-1"
date: 2012-06-21 18:09:42 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: team-lead-1
status: publish
---

The responsibilities of a software test lead can vary from one organization to the next. Even within an organization, the knowledge of different interviewers can differ in the areas of software testing, project/ customer requirements and organization requirements. Many technical interviewers keep the requirements and areas to cover in mind and base the interview questions on these requirements and areas; they do not usually have scripted questions to ask the candidate. Due to these reasons, it is difficult to arrive at a list of generic questions that can cover all software test lead interviews. The job description provided by the company that has called you for the interview should provide the information for your preparation. In case you do not have the job description available with you, the following topics could provide you ideas for questions that you should prepare: 1\. Software test planning 2\. Software test life cycle 3\. Design and authoring of test cases 4\. Review (of requirements, test cases, test results, defect reports etc.) 5\. Types of testing performed (scripted/ exploratory, manual/ automated, functional/ performance/ security etc.) 6\. Work planning, assignment, tracking and problem resolution 7\. Test environments 8\. Tools used (test management/ automation/ defect reporting) 9\. Client coordination 10\. Methodology followed 11\. Team handled (team size/ competencies of team members/ examples of team work) 12\. Methodology followed (structured/ agile) =================================================================================================== 1\. Tell us about yourself? Keep your answer very simple and brief. Don't prolong by telling your family history and schooling. Be brief and focus more on your skills initiatives and adaptability. 2\. Why should we hire you? Because I have all the attributes that this role requires. Knowledge, experience, skills and abilities. You need to be confident while replying and no vague answers. 3\. Why are you looking for a change? or Why do you want to leave your company? Be positive while answering. You want to work with a company where you can make a long term career. Where you can use your skills and learn new skills. Be honest if there was any retrenchment in the previous company e.g. Our Department was consolidated or eliminated. 4\. What are your strengths? Your strengths should relate to the company and job opening. I have a proven track record as an achiever.Positive attitude, good sense of humour, good comunication skills, dedicated, team player, willingness to walk the extramile to achieve excellence etc. 5\. What are your weaknesses? Never say you do not have any weak points. Try not to reveal your personal characteristics. I often get impatient with others sloppy work. 6\. What challenges did you face in your previous jobs? Getting things planned and done on time within the budget. Quote any example that you have experienced. 7\. How will you motivate your team? Bottom line is do it show it and inspire. Involve all the members in the ongoing development and progress of the company. Communicate and interact with the team members. They want regular updates on their personal performance. Keep them updated.Celebrate individual and team performance. Catch people doing something right and focus on recognizing excellent performance.Set challenging goals. Team will work hard to accomplish them. Believe in your people. Majority of them want to perform.Motivate emplyees for the next level. Consistent and transparent with the team. Let the members know why doing an asigned task is important to you the organization and them.Set the example for others to follow. ==========================================================================================
