---
title: "new tips"
date: 2013-11-12 07:34:32 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: new-tips
status: publish
---

<http://www.gowrikumar.com/interview/>

### <http://dotnet-question-answer.blogspot.in/>

**_How do you determine realistic schedules for the project?_** __ For any type of projects it can be different. But there is some main factors that if you follow them you can achieve realistic schedule. I usually use these steps: At first Identify the scope and project product. then identify the products that need to create during a project as a product breakdown structure (or WBS) to achieve project product. after that Identify all management activities and their internal and external dependencies require to produce product(s). Prepare the estimation for all management activities by attention to availability and skills require and also assumptions and constraints of the environment of project and resources. and finally develop schedule. Almost these steps are usual to create realistic schedule. Just we should careful about identify risks that may occur during a project and also constraint of using resources that will have influence on time of project. Lack of identifying scope, risk and also lack of attention to constraints will cause to determine unrealistic schedule. And the other thing that is very critical is creating schedule by collaboration with the project team. **_How do you inform all the stakeholders of the progress of the project on a regular basis?_** Status Reports- not only for the progress, highlight the Project Issues, Risks & Mitigation as well **_How do you monitor risks to the project and mitigate them?_** We have to first analyzed the risk of a project based on statistical probability and categorized as the following ratings. Probability: High The risk is more likely to occur. À50% Medium The risk is about as likely to occur as not to occur. ¼ 50% Low The risk is more likely not to occur. ¿50% Severity: High This risk, unmitigated, would result in a complete failure for the project. Medium This risk would have a major impact on the project’s schedule, cost, or performance. Low This risk would have a minor impact on the project. 1) Analyze Risks Based on the ratings given to each risk, they will be analyzed to determine what action the project will take. That action could include immediate programatic changes to ensure that the risk does not occur, development of mitigation plans that could be implemented in the event of the occurence of the risk, or some other action as appropriate. 2) Monitor Risks Every effort will be made to ensure that the risks do not occur, and if they do occur, that we notice the occurence of the risk as soon as possible. Early notice can help us limit any possible negative effects of the risk on the project. If progression of the project changes the assessment of the probability or severity of a risk, the risk will be analyzed and the RMP will be updated. 3) Mitigate Risk In the event that a risk does occur, the issue will be analyzed in light of the mitigation plans and action will be taken as appropriate. **_What project management methodologies are you most familiar with?_** __ In order to achieve goals and planned results within a defined schedule and a budget, a manager uses a project. Regardless of which field or which trade, there are assortments of methodologies to help managers at every stage of a project from the initiation to implementation to the closure. In this tutorial, we will try to discuss the most commonly used project management methodologies. A methodology is a model, which project managers employ for the design, planning, implementation and achievement of their project objectives. There are different project management methodologies to benefit different projects. For example, there is a specific methodology, which NASA uses to build a space station while the Navy employs a different methodology to build submarines. Hence, there are different project management methodologies that cater to the needs of different projects spanned across different business domains. 

## Project Methodologies

Following are the most frequently used project management methodologies in the project management practice: 

## 1 - Adaptive Project Framework:

In this methodology, the project scope is a variable. Additionally, the time and the cost are constants for the project. Therefore, during the project execution, the project scope is adjusted in order to get the maximum business value from the project. 

## 2 - Agile Software Development:

Agile software development methodology is for a project that needs extreme agility in requirements. The key features of agile are its short-termed delivery cycles (sprints), agile requirements, dynamic team culture, less restrictive project control and emphasis on real-time communication. 

## 3 - Crystal Methods:

In crystal method, the project processes are given a low priority. Instead of the processes, this method focuses more on team communication, team member skills, people and interaction. Crystal methods come under agile category. 

## 4 - Dynamic Systems Development Model (DSDM):

This is the successor of Rapid Application Development (RAD) methodology. This is also a subset of agile software development methodology and boasts about the training and documents support this methodology has. This method emphasizes more on the active user involvement during the project life cycle. 

## 5 - Extreme Programming (XP):

Lowering the cost of requirement changes is the main objective of extreme programming. XP emphasizes on fine scale feedback, continuous process, shared understanding and programmer welfare. In XP, there is no detailed requirements specification or software architecture built. 

## 6 - Feature Driven Development (FDD):

This methodology is more focused on simple and well-defined processes, short iterative and feature driven delivery cycles. All the planning and execution in this project type take place based on the features. 

## 7 - Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL):

This methodology is a collection of best practices in project management. ITIL covers a broad aspect of project management which starts from the organizational management level. 

## 8 - Joint Application Development (JAD):

Involving the client from the early stages with the project tasks is emphasized by this methodology. The project team and the client hold JAD sessions collaboratively in order to get the contribution from the client. These JAD sessions take place during the entire project life cycle. 

## 9 - Lean Development (LD):

Lean development focuses on developing change-tolerance software. In this method, satisfying the customer comes as the highest priority. The team is motivated to provide the highest value for the money paid by the customer. 

## 10 - PRINCE2:

PRINCE2 takes a process-based approach to project management. This methodology is based on eight high-level processes. 

## 11 - Rapid Application Development (RAD):

This methodology focuses on developing products faster with higher quality. When it comes to gathering requirements, it uses the workshop method. Prototyping is used for getting clear requirements and re-use the software components to accelerate the development timelines. In this method, all types of internal communications are considered informal. 

## 12 - Rational Unified Process (RUP):

RUP tries to capture all the positive aspects of modern software development methodologies and offer them in one package. This is one of the first project management methodologies that suggested an iterative approach to software development. 

## 13 - Scrum:

This is an agile methodology. The main goal of this methodology is to improve team productivity dramatically by removing every possible burden. Scrum projects are managed by a Scrum master. 

## 14 - Spiral:

Spiral methodology is the extended waterfall model with prototyping. This method is used instead of using the waterfall model for large projects. 

## 15 - Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC):

This is a conceptual model used in software development projects. In this method, there is a possibility of combining two or more project management methodologies for the best outcome. SDLC also heavily emphasizes on the use of documentation and has strict guidelines on it. 

## 16 - Waterfall (Traditional):

This is the legacy model for software development projects. This methodology has been in practice for decades before the new methodologies were introduced. In this model, development lifecycle has fixed phases and linear timelines. This model is not capable of addressing the challenges in the modern software development domain. 

## Conclusion:

Selecting the most suitable project management methodology could be a tricky task. When it comes to selecting an appropriate one, there are a few dozens of factors you should consider. Each project management methodology carries its own strengths and weaknesses. **Where do you see yourself five years from now?** _"In five years I hope to be working with an employer in an increasingly responsible position, that enables me to utilize my talents and work closely with my colleagues in solving important problems. I see myself taking on new and exciting challenges in an enjoyable environment and hopefully this will be with your company."_

### <http://dotnet-question-answer.blogspot.in/>

### [What is the difference between classes and structs in Microsoft.Net?](<http://dotnet-question-answer.blogspot.in/2007/01/what-is-difference-between-classes-and.html>)

  * A **struct** is a value type, while a **class** is a reference type.
  * When we inst class, memory will be allocated on the heap. When struct gets initiated, it gets memory on the stack.
  * Classes can have explicit parameter less constructors. But structs cannot have this.
  * Classes support inheritance. But there is no inheritance for structs. A struct cannot inherit from another struct or class, and it cannot be the base of a class. Like classes, structures can implement interfaces.
  * We can assign null variable to class. But we cannot assign null to a struct variable, since structs are value type.
  * We can declare a destructor in class but can not in struct.



### [What is a static class?](<http://dotnet-question-answer.blogspot.in/2007/01/what-is-static-class.html>)

We can declare a **static class**. We use **static class** when there is no data or behavior in the class that depends on object identity. A static class can have only static members. We can not create instances of a static class using the new keyword. **.NET Framework****common language runtime** (CLR) loads **Static classes** automatically when the program or namespace containing the class is loaded. Here are some more features of **static class**

  * **Static classes** only contain **static members**.
  * Static classes can not be instantiated. They cannot contain Instance Constructors
  * Static classes are sealed.

**what is cyclomatic complexity ?** Cyclomatic complexity of a piece of code is the number of different paths available in the execution of the program. 

If there is no branching (if-else or switch statement) and looping (while, for & do-while loop), then the statements will execute linearly in the function. Hence cynclomatic complexity = 1;

A Branching breaks the linear flow of execution in two parts increasing the Cyclomatic complexity of the program. Same goes for the looping statements.

Hence the more level of indentation we have in our program the more will be the Cyclomatic complexity.

### [C# - Early Binding and Late Binding with Example & Difference b/w Early & Late Binding](<http://www.aspdotnet-suresh.com/2013/09/c-early-binding-and-late-binding-Example.html>)

Polymorphism means many forms (ability to take more than one form). In Polymorphism poly means “multiple” and morph means “forms” so polymorphism means many forms.

In polymorphism we will declare methods with same name and different parameters in same class or methods with same name and same parameters in different classes. Polymorphism has ability to provide different implementation of methods that are implemented with same name.

In Polymorphism we have 2 different types those are

\- **Compile Time Polymorphism**(Called as Early Binding or Overloading or static binding)

\- **Run Time Polymorphism**(Called as Late Binding or Overriding or dynamic binding)

**Compile Time Polymorphism or Early Binding**

Compile time polymorphism means we will declare methods with same name but different signatures because of this we will perform different tasks with same method name. This compile time polymorphism also called as **early binding** or **method overloading**.

Method Overloading or compile time polymorphism means same method names with different signatures (different parameters)

For more details check this link [polymorphism in c#](<http://www.aspdotnet-suresh.com/2013/09/polymorphism-in-c-with-example-types-of-polymorphism.html>)

**Run Time Polymorphism or Late Binding**

Run time polymorphism also called as **late binding** or **method overriding** or **dynamic polymorphism**. Run time polymorphism or method overriding means same method names with same signatures.

In this run time polymorphism or method overriding we can override a method in base class by creating similar function in derived class this can be achieved by using inheritance principle and using “**virtual** &**override** ” keywords.
