---
title: "Sql Server 2"
date: 2013-08-22 09:53:32 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: sql-server-2
status: publish
---

1. **1.****Differences Between IsNull() and Coalesce() Functions**

1\. The COALESCE() function is based on the ANSI SQL standard whereas ISNULL function is a Transact-SQL function. 2\. An expression involving ISNULL with non-null parameters is considered to be NOT NULL, while expressions involving COALESCE with non-null parameters is considered to be NULL. 3\. The ISNULL() function contains only two parameters. The COALESCE() function contains multiple parameters. If we use more than two parameters with the ISNULL function then we must use nested ISNULL functions. \------------ http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14355324/want-to-learn-more-on-ntile 
  1. **2.****WHAT IS NTILE()?**

Think of it as buckets, NTILE(2) will make 2 buckets, half the rows will have the value 1 and the other half the value 2 example create table #temp(StudentID char(2), Marks int) insert #temp values('S1',75 ) insert #temp values('S2',83) insert #temp values('S3',91) insert #temp values('S4',83) insert #temp values('S5',93 )     select NTILE(2) over(order by Marks),* from #temp order by Marks Here is the output, since you have an uneven number of rows, bucket 1 will have 1 row more 1 S1 75 1 S2 83 1 S4 83 2 S3 91 2 S5 93 If you add one more row insert #temp values('S6',92 ) Now both buckets have 3 rows 1 S1 75 1 S2 83 1 S4 83 2 S3 91 2 S6 92 2 S5 93 ****

  1. **3.****[ROW_NUMBER(), RANK(), and DENSE_RANK() – Flexibility at a Price](<http://thehobt.blogspot.in/2009/02/rownumber-rank-and-denserank.html>)******

**http://thehobt.blogspot.in/2009/02/rownumber-rank-and-denserank.html** One of the most handy features introduced in SQL 2005 were the ranking functions; ROW_NUMBER(), RANK(), and DENSE_RANK(). For anyone who hasn’t been introduced to these syntactic gems, here’s a quick rundown (for those of you who are very familiar with these functions already, feel free to read through, or skip right down to “There’s No Such Thing as a Free Ride” below). OK – so the general syntax for any one of these commands is more or less the same: ROW_NUMBER() OVER ([<partition_by_clause>] <order_by_clause>) RANK() OVER ([<partition_by_clause>] <order_by_clause>) DENSE_RANK() OVER ([<partition_by_clause>] <order_by_clause>) So the PARTITION BY part is optional, but everything else is required. An example of a non partitioned, and then a partitioned ROW_NUMBER() clause are listed below: ROW_NUMBER() OVER (ORDER BY TotalDue DESC) ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY CustomerID ORDER BY TotalDue DESC) The difference between the three functions is best explained using an example. Here’s the data I’m using for this example, in case you want to follow the bouncing ball at home ;-) CREATE TABLE OrderRanking ( OrderID INT IDENTITY(1,1) NOT NULL, CustomerID INT, OrderTotal decimal(15,2) ) INSERT OrderRanking (CustomerID, OrderTotal) SELECT 1, 1000 UNION SELECT 1, 500 UNION SELECT 1, 650 UNION SELECT 1, 3000 UNION SELECT 2, 1000 UNION SELECT 2, 2000 UNION SELECT 2, 500 UNION SELECT 2, 500 UNION SELECT 3, 500 I’ll use the following (admittedly ugly) query to demonstrate the difference between each function: SELECT *, ROW_NUMBER() OVER (ORDER BY OrderTotal DESC) AS RN, ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY CustomerID ORDER BY OrderTotal DESC) AS RNP, RANK() OVER (ORDER BY OrderTotal DESC) AS R, RANK() OVER (PARTITION BY CustomerID ORDER BY OrderTotal DESC) AS RP, DENSE_RANK() OVER (ORDER BY OrderTotal DESC) AS DR, DENSE_RANK() OVER (PARTITION BY CustomerID ORDER BY OrderTotal DESC) AS DRP FROM OrderRanking ORDER BY OrderTotal DESC Excuse the terrible aliases. Anything longer and the code snippets and output in this blog entry get really, really ugly. When we run the query, this is what we get: ![\[image\[7\].png\]](http://lh4.ggpht.com/_GyTlY8-ysTw/SYvemPDM1DI/AAAAAAAAACg/zGWYyrbF1U0/s1600/image%5B7%5D.png) So from the example above, we can see that: 

  * ROW_NUMBER() assigns sequential numbers to each partition in a result set (an unpartitioned result set simply has a single partition), based upon the order of the results as specified in the ORDER BY clause. If you look carefully, you’ll see that the values in column RN are based upon a simple sort of TotalDue, while the values in Column RNP (Row_Number partitioned) are first partitioned or “grouped” by CustomerID, and then numbered by TotalDue, with the row number resetting on change of customer.
  * Contrary to popular belief, RANK() does not sort rows based upon how bad they smell. RANK() does much the same thing as ROW_NUMBER(), only it acknowledges ties in the columns specified in the ORDER BY clause, and assigns them the same rank. Where a tie occurs (as was the case for orders 6/3, and 1/5/8), the numbers that would otherwise have been “used up” are skipped, and numbering resumes at the next available number. As you can see, RANK() leaves a gap whenever there is a tie.
  * DENSE_RANK() doesn’t like gaps. It’s more of an Abercrombie & Fitch kind of function (ba-dum-ching!). Ohhhhh…that was terrible. My sense of humour may give me up for lent. You might follow it. Anyway….DENSE_RANK() “fills in the gaps”. It starts from the next number after a tie occurs, so instead of 1, 2, 3, 3, 5 you get 1, 2, 3, 3, 4.



  1. **4.****Temp table vs Table Variable**



Table variables can lead to fewer stored procedure recompilations than temporary tables (see KB [#243586](<http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx/kb/243586>) and KB [#305977](<http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx/kb/305977>)), and — since they cannot be rolled back — do not bother with the transaction log.

##table is belogs to global temporary table. yes #table not exist because its in given scope only and you never access it out the given scope.

  * **Table variables** (DECLARE @t TABLE) are visible only to the connection that creates it, and are deleted when the batch or stored procedure ends.
  * **Local temporary tables** (CREATE TABLE #t) are visible only to the connection that creates it, and are deleted when the connection is closed.
  * **Global temporary tables** (CREATE TABLE ##t) are visible to everyone, and are deleted when all connections that have referenced them have closed.
  * **Tempdb permanent tables** (USE tempdb CREATE TABLE t) are visible to everyone, and are deleted when the server is restarted.


  1. **5.****CTE - common table expression**

http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/275645/CTE-In-SQL-Server For any operation over a temporary result set, what are the options SEL Server has to offer? We do have a _Temp_ table, a table variable, table valued parameters and of course not to forget table valued function. But with the onset of SQL Server 2005 and onwards, a very powerful feather has been added for the programmers' benefit: Common Table Expression (CTE). It simplifies complex queries and most importantly enables you to recurse, did I just say recurse values. Yes, similar to any programming languages C#, C++, etc. Amazing, isn’t it ! Let's dive deep into this powerful feature and understand how it works and what all it has to offer.  

  1. **6.****View Benefits**

Security   Each user can be given permission to access the database only through a small set of views that contain the specific data the user is authorized to see, thus restricting the user's access to stored data   Query Simplicity   A view can draw data from several different tables and present it as a single table, turning multi-table queries into single-table queries against the view.   Structural simplicity   Views can give a user a "personalized" view of the database structure, presenting the database as a set of virtual tables that make sense for that user.   Consistency A view can present a consistent, unchanged image of the structure of the database, even if the underlying source tables are split, restructured, or renamed.   Data Integrity   If data is accessed and entered through a view, the DBMS can automatically check the data to ensure that it meets the specified integrity constraints.   Logical data independence**.**   View can make the application and database tables to a certain extent independent. If there is no view, the application must be based on a table. With the view, the program can be established in view of above, to view the program with a database table to be separated.   Disadvantages of views   Performance   Views create the appearance of a table, but the DBMS must still translate queries against the view into queries against the underlying source tables. If the view is defined by a complex, multi-table query then simple queries on the views may take considerable time.   Update restrictions   When a user tries to update rows of a view, the DBMS must translate the request into an update on rows of the underlying source tables. This is possible for simple views, but more complex views are often restricted to read-only.  

  1. **7.****Normalization Need**

Normalization is the process of efficiently organizing data in a database. There are two goals of the normalization process: eliminating redundant data (for example, storing the same data in more than one [table](<http://databases.about.com/library/glossary/bldef-table.htm>)) and ensuring [data dependencies](<http://databases.about.com/od/specificproducts/a/Database-Dependency.htm>) make sense (only storing related data in a table). Both of these are worthy goals as they reduce the amount of space a database consumes and ensure that data is logically stored.
