---
title: "Oracle 1"
date: 2014-02-28 10:18:49 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: oracle-1
status: publish
---

<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-database-performance-tuning.aspx> <http://www.careerride.com/Oracle-Interview-Questions.aspx>

### 

## 1\. Explain: a.) Integrity Constraints

It can be called as a declarative way in order to define a business rule for a table's column  
---  
  
## b.) Index

\- It can be called as an optional structure which is associated with a table for direct access to the rows \- Index can be created for one or more columns in a table  
---  
  
## c.) Extent

\- It can be defined as a specific number of contiguous data blocks in single allocation. \- It is used to store a specific type of information.  
---  
  
## 2\. What is ANALYZE command used for?

ANALYZE command is used to perform various functions on index, table, or cluster, as listed below: \- It helps in dentifying migrated and chained rows of the table or cluster. \- It helps in validating the structure of the object. \- It helps in collecting the statistics about object used by the optimizer. They are then stored in the data dictionary. \- It helps in deleting statistics used by object from the data dictionary. | [youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W604pI2v7cE?feature=player_detailpage]  
---|---  
  
##### [Oracle 11g dba interview questions and answers - 50 questions](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-11g-dba-interview-questions.aspx> "Oracle 11g dba interview questions and answers part 1")

### Test your Oracle skills:

[Oracle interview test part 1 (40 questions)](<http://www.careerride.com/test.aspx?type=Oracle> "Oracle practice test") [Oracle DBA interview test (30 questions)](<http://www.careerride.com/test.aspx?type=Oracle-DBA> "Oracle practice test") [Oracle PLSQL interview test (30 questions)](<http://www.careerride.com/test.aspx?type=Oracle-PLSQL> "Oracle practice test") [Oracle Replication interview test (20 questions)](<http://www.careerride.com/test.aspx?type=Oracle-Replication> "Oracle practice test") [Oracle Architecture interview test (20 questions)](<http://www.careerride.com/test.aspx?type=Oracle-Architecture> "Oracle practice test") [Oracle Transaction interview test (20 questions)](<http://www.careerride.com/test.aspx?type=Oracle-Transaction> "Oracle practice test")

## 3\. a.) List the types of joins used in writing SUBQUERIES.

\- Self join \- Outer Join \- Equi-join 

## b.) List the various Oracle database objects.

\- TABLES \- VIEWS \- INDEXES \- SYNONYMS \- SEQUENCES \- TABLESPACES 

## 4\. a.) Explain i.)Rename ii.)Alias.

\- Rename - It is a permanent name provided to a table or column. \- Alias - It is a temporary name provided to a table or column which gets over after the execution of SQL statement. 

## b.) What is a view?

\- It is virtual table which is defined as a stored procedure based on one or more tables. 

## 5\. a.) What are the varoius components of physical database structure of Oracle database?

Oracle database comprises of three kinds of files: \- Datafiles, \- Redo log files, \- Control files. 

## b.) List out the components of logical database structure of Oracle database.

\- Tablespaces \- Database's schema objects. 

## 6\. a.) What do you mean by a tablespace?

\- These are the Logical Storage Units into which a database is divided. \- It is used to group together the related logical structures. 

## b.) What is Control File used for?

Control File is used for: \- Database recovery. \- Whenever an instance of an ORACLE database begins, its control file is used to identify the database and redo log files that must be opened for database operation to go ahead. 

## 7\. a.) What is a synonym? What are its various types?

A synonym can be called as an alias for a table, view, sequence or program unit. It is basically of two types: \- Private - Only the owner can access it. \- Public - Can be accessed by any database user. 

## b.) What are the uses of synonyms?

\- Mask the real name and owner of an object. \- Provide public access to an object \- Provide location transparency for tables, views or program units of a remote database. \- Simplify the SQL statements for database users. 

## 8.) What do you mean by a deadlock?

\- When two processes are waiting to update the rows of a table which are locked by another process, the situation is called a deadlock. \- The reasons for it to happen are: \- lack of proper row lock commands. \- Poor design of front-end application \- It reduces the performance of the server severely. \- These locks get automatically released automatically when a commit/rollback operation is performed or any process is killed externally. 

## 9.) a.) What suggestions do you have to reduce the network traffic?

Following are some of the actions which can be taken to reduce the network traffic: \- Use snapshots to replicate data. \- Use remote procedure calls. \- Replicate data in distributed environment. 

## b.) What are the various types of snapshots ?

There are two types of snapshots: \- Simple snapshots - Based on a query that does not contain GROUP BY clauses, CONNECT BY clauses, JOINs, sub-query or snashot of operations. \- Complex snapshots- which contains atleast any one of the above. 

## 10.) What is a sub query? What are its various types?

\- Sub Query also termed as Nested Query or Inner Query is used to get data from multiple tables. \- A sub query is added in the where clause of the main query. There can be two types of subqueries: a.) Correlated sub query \- It can reference column in a table listed in the from list of the outer query but is not as independent as a query. . b.) Non-Correlated sub query \- Results of this sub query are submitted to the main query or parent query. \- It is independent like a query 

## 11.) Will you be able to store pictures in the database?Explain.

\- Yes, pictures can be stored in the database using Long Raw Data type. \- This datatype is used to store binary data for 2 gigabytes of length. \- However, the table can have only one Long Raw data type. 

## 12.) Explain: a.) Integrity constraint.

\- It is a declaration defined in a business rule for a table column. \- Integrity constraint ensures the accuracy and consistency of data in a database. \- It is of three types - namely - Domain Integrity, Referential Integrity and Domain Integrity. 

## b.) COALESCE function

\- This function is used to return the value which is set not to be null in the list. \- Incase all values in the list are null the coalesce function will return NULL. \- Its representation: Coalesce(value1, value2, value3,…) 

## 13.) Explain the following: a.) BLOB datatype.

\- It is a data type with varying length binary string, used to store two gigabytes memory. \- For BLOB, the length needs to be specified in bytes. 

## b.) DML.

\- DML - it is also termed as Data Manipulation Language (DML). \- It is used to access and manipulate data in the existing objects. \- DML statements are insert, select, update and delete. 

## 14.) Differentiate between: a.) TRANSLATE and REPLACE.

\- Translate is used to substitute character by character. \- Replace is used to substitute a single character with a word. 

## b.) What is Merge Statement used for?

\- Merge statement is used to select rows from one or more data source to updating and insert into a table or a view. 

## 15.) What are the various Oracle Database objects?

Various database objects are as follows: \- Tables – This is a set of elements organized in vertical and horizontal fashion. \- Tablespaces – This is a logical storage unit in Oracle. \- Views – It is virtual table derived from one or more tables. \- Indexes – This is a performance tuning method to process the records. \- Synonyms – This is a name for tables. \- Sequences. 

## 16\. What is the purpose of Save Points in Oracle database?

\- Save Points are used to divide a transaction into smaller phases. \- It enables rolling back part of a transaction. \- Maximum 5 save points are allowed in Oracle Database. \- Whenever an error is encountered, it is possible to rollback from the point where the SAVEPOINT has been saved. 

## 17\. a.) What is an ALERT?

\- It a window which appears on the screen overlaying a portion of the current display. 

## b.) Differentiate between post-database commit and post-form commit.

\- The post-database commit trigger is fired after oracle forms issue the commit to finalized transactions. \- The post-form commit is fired during the post and commit transactions process, after the database commit occurs. 

## 18\. Differentiate between pre-select and pre-query.

\- Once oracle forms construct the select statement to be issued Pre-select is fired during the execute query and count query processing. All this happens before the statement is actually issued. \- The pre-query trigger is fired just before oracle forms issue the select statement to the database. 

## 19\. What is hot backup and logical backup?

Hot backup \- Backing up the archive log files when database is open is called Hot backup. \- To do this, the ARCHIVELOG mode is enabled. \- Following files are backed up - All data files, Archive log, redo log files and control files. Logical backup \- Logical back ip is reading a set of database records and writing them into a file. \- An Export utility is required to take the backup while an Import utility is required to recover from the backup. 

## 20\. What do you mean by Redo Log file mirroring ?

\- The process of having a copy of redo log files is called mirroring. \- It is done by creating group of log files together. This ensures that LGWR automatically writes them to all the members of the current on-line redo log group. \- In case a group fails, the database automatically switches over to the next group. It diminishes the performance. 

##### _Oracle**\- Difference between trigger and stored procedure - Feb 18, 2010 at 11:00 PM by Rajmeet Ghai**_

#### Explain the difference between trigger and stored procedure.

  * A stored procedure can accept parameters while a trigger cannot.
  * A trigger can’t return any value while stored procedures can.
  * A trigger is executed automatically on some event while a stored procedure needs to be explicitly called.
  * Triggers are used for insertions, update and deletions on tables while stored procedures are often using independently in the database.
  * A trigger cannot be written in a stored procedure. However, the reverse is not possible.

_**Oracle - Difference between trigger and stored procedure - Feb 07, 2010 at 14:20 PM by Shuchi Gauri**_

#### Explain the difference between trigger and stored procedure.

Trigger in act which is performed automatically before or after a event occur Stored procedure is a set of functionality which is executed when it is explicitly invoked.  __

##### _Oracle**\- Difference between trigger and stored procedure - April 10, 2009 at 11:00 AM**_

#### Explain the difference between trigger and stored procedure.

Procedure runs only when one call them manually whereas a trigger runs when there is any activity (insert,update,delete) on table on which the trigger is written. 

##### _Oracle - Explain Row level and statement level trigger - Feb 23, 2010 at 11:00 PM by Rajmeet Ghai_

#### Explain Row level and statement level trigger.

A trigger if specified FOR EACH ROW; it is fired for each of the table being affected by the triggering statement. For example if a trigger needs to be fired when rows of a table are deleted, it will be fired as many times the rows are deleted. If FOR EACH ROW is not specified, it is application to a statement and the trigger is executed at a statement level. 

##### _Oracle - Explain Row level and statement level trigger - Feb 07, 2010 at 14:20 PM by Shuchi Gauri_

#### Explain Row level and statement level trigger.

**Row-level:** \- They get fired once for each row in a table affected by the statements. **Statement:** \- They get fired once for each triggering statement.      

##### _Oracle**\- Explain Row level and statement level trigger - April 10, 2009 at 11:00 AM**_

#### Explain Row level and statement level trigger.

**Row Level Trigger** Row Level Trigger is fired each time row is affected by Insert, Update or Delete command. If statement doesn’t affect any row, no trigger action happens.   **Statement Level Trigger** This kind of trigger fires when a SQL statement affects the rows of the table. The trigger activates and performs its activity irrespective of number of rows affected due to SQL statement. 

#### Write a PL/SQL program for a trigger.

PL/SQL program for tracking operation on a emp table. _Create or Replace Trigger EmpTracking Before Insert or Delete or Update on Emp For each row Declare Begin If Inserting then /*Can perform operations just before record is inserted into the emp table*/ Else if Updating then /*Can perform operations just before record is about to be updated*/ Else if Deleting then /*Can perform operations just before record is about to be deleted*/ End If End EmpTracking_

##### _Oracle**\- What are cascading triggers? - Feb 23, 2010 at 11:00 PM by Rajmeet Ghai**_

#### What are cascading triggers?

At times when SQL statement of a trigger can fire other triggers. This results in cascading triggers. Oracle allows around 32 cascading triggers. Cascading triggers can cause result in abnormal behavior of the application. 

##### _Oracle**\- What are cascading triggers? - Feb 07, 2010 at 14:20 PM by Shuchi Gauri**_

#### What are cascading triggers?

A Trigger that contains statements which cause invoking of other Triggers are known as cascading triggers. Here’s the order of execution of statements in case of cascading triggers: 

  * Execute all BEFORE statement triggers that apply to the current statement.
  * Loop for each row affected statement.
  * Execute all BEFORE row triggers that apply to the current statement in the loop.
  * Lock and change row, perform integrity constraints check; release lock.
  * Execute all AFTER row triggers that apply to the current statement.
  * Execute all AFTER statement triggers that apply to the current statement.

     

##### _Oracle**\- What are cascading triggers? - April 10, 2009 at 11:00 AM**_

#### What are cascading triggers?

When a statement in a trigger body causes another trigger to be fired, the triggers are said to be cascading. 

##### _Oracle displaying and aggregating data - June 17, 2010 at 11:20 AM by Rajmeet Ghai_

What are aggregate functions in SQL? What are those functions? Define, syntax and an example with output for: SUM function, AVG (average) function, COUNT function, Max and Min function, Using ROLLUP to aggregate data in SQL 

#### What are aggregate functions in SQL? What are those functions?

Define, syntax and an example with output for: Aggregate functions in SQL are used to perform calculation on data. These functions are inbuilt in SQL and return a single value. 

#### Define, syntax and an example with output for:

##### SUM function

SUM function returns the sum or addition of all NOT NULL values of a column. For e.g. I have a Table employee with the fields id, name, salary and I want the sum of all salaries, I can use SUM function as shown SELECT SUM(emp_salary) from employee; Hence, if my column emp_salary has values 20,000, 22,000, 21,000; the output will be 63,000 

##### AVG (average) function

AVG function returns the average of all NOT NULL values of a column. For e.g. I have a Table employee with the fields id, name, salary and I want the average of all salaries, I can use AVG function as shown SELECT AVG(emp_salary) from employee; Hence, if my column emp_salary has values 20,000, 22,000, 21,000; the output will be 21,000 

##### COUNT function

COUNT function returns the number of rows or values of a table. For e.g. I have a Table employee with the fields id, name, salary and I want the count of all rows, I can use COUNT function as shown SELECT COUNT(*) from employee; 

##### Max and Min function.

MAX function returns the largest value of a column in a table. For e.g. I have a Table employee with the fields id, name, salary and I want the maximum salary of an employee, I can use MAX function as shown SELECT MAX(emp_salary) from employee; Hence, if my column emp_salary has values 20,000, 22,000, 21,000; the output will be 22,000 MIN function returns the smallest value of a column in a table. For e.g. I have a Table employee with the fields id, name, salary and I want the minimun salary of an employee, I can use MIN function as shown SELECT MIN(emp_salary) from employee; Hence, if my column emp_salary has values 20,000, 22,000, 21,000; the output will be 20,000 

#### Using ROLLUP to aggregate data in SQL

ROLLUP in SQL allows you summarize your data and view. I have a Table company with the fields dept, branch, number of employees and following is the data.   Dept | Branch | Number  
---|---|---  
Dev | Seatle | 2000  
Analyst | Seatle | 1000  
Tester | St Louis | 400  
Dev | St Louis | 100  
Analyst | boston | 250  
dev | boston | 500  
Tester | boston | 560  
  On using a ROLLUP query, SELECT Dept, Branch, SUM(Number) as Number FROM company GROUP BY dept,branch WITH ROLLUP Will give results of state wise inventory of each branch. 

##### _SQL number functions - June 17, 2010 at 11:20 AM by Rajmeet Ghai_

Define, syntax and an example with output for: ABS(number), CEIL(number), FLOOR(number), MOD(number, divisor), POWER(number, power), SIGN(number), ROUND(number, precision), SQRT(number), TRUNC(number, precision) 

#### Define, syntax and an example with output for:

##### ABS(number)

Returns the absolute positive value of an expression. Syntax: ABS(expression) Example: SELECT ABS(-1.0), ABS(0.0), ABS(1.0) Output: 1.0 .0 1.0 

##### CEIL(number)

Returns the smallest integer greater than, or equal to, the specified numeric expression. Syntax: CEILING(expression) Example: SELECT CEILING($223.45), CEILING($-223.45), CEILING($0.0) Output: 224.00 -223.00 0.00 

##### FLOOR(number)

Returns the largest integer less than, or equal to, the specified numeric expression. Syntax: FLOOR(expression) Example: SELECT FLOOR($223.45), CEILING($-223.45), CEILING($0.0) Output: 223.00 -224.00 0.00 

##### MOD(number, divisor)

Returns the remainder of the division from 2 integer values. Syntax: MOD(dividend, divisor) Example: SELECT MOD(20,3) Output: 2 

##### POWER(number, power)

Returns the exponential value for the numeric expression. Syntax: POWER(number, power) Example: SELECT POWER(2.0, 3.0) Output: 8.0 

##### SIGN(number)

Returns the sign i.e. positive or negative value for the numeric expression. It returns -1 for negative expressions, a value of 0 for zero Syntax: SIGN(number) Example: SELECT SIGN(4) Output: 1 

##### ROUND(number, precision)

Returns the numeric value rounded off to the next value specified. Syntax: ROUND(number, number of places) Example: SELECT ROUND(1.3456, 2) 

##### SQRT(number)

Returns the square root value of the expression. Syntax: SQRT(number) Example: SELECT SQRT(4.0) Output: 2.0 

##### TRUNC(number, precision)

Returns a numeric value that truncate to the specific places Syntax: TRUNCATE(number,places) Example: SELECT TRUNCATE(1.3456, 2) Output: 1.34 

##### _PL/SQL - June 17, 2010 at 11:20 AM by Rajmeet Ghai_

Define PL/SQL. Explain its purpose Advantages of PL/SQL Main Features of PL/SQL PL/SQL Architecture Basic Structure of PL/SQL Variables and Types Simple PL/SQL Programs Create Pl/SQL block dynamically and then execute it by calling 'DBMS_SQL.EXECUTE' Explain the statement provided by PL/SQL, i.e. Conditional Control Statements, Iterative Statements, Sequential Control Statements SQL vs. PL/SQL Both PL/SQL and Java/.NET code can be used to create Oracle stored procedures and triggers. Which of the one should be used and why? Explain how to see modified code in oracle, i.e. using Oracle Data Dictionary Explain how to keep a history of PL/SQL code changes. Explain the purpose of binary wrapper utility in oracle. How can we protect PL/SQL source code? Explain how to debug PL/SQL program. How can we read and write operating system files from PL/SQL program? How can we call DDL statements like CREATE, DROP, TRUNCATE, etc. from PL/SQL? Show in an example Difference between %TYPE and %ROWTYPE. How can we execute an operating system command from PL/SQL? Example Illustrate how to loop through table in PL/SQL. What is a mutating and constraining table? Difference between stored procedures and functions 

#### Define PL/SQL. Explain its purpose

PL/SQL is Procedural Language SQL that is an extension of SQL that results in a more structural language composed of blocks. It is mainly used in writing applications that needs to be structured and has error handling. 

#### Advantages of PL/SQL

Because of the block nature, multiple statements are processed at once thereby improving performance. PL/SQL handles exceptions on catching which, action can be taken. The block can be stored and reused. PL/SQL is highly portable as it works with all procedural languages and is highly secured because of privileges. 

#### Main Features of PL/SQL

1) Offers conditional blocks of code having if else etc 2) Offers error handling. It can handle exceptions. 3) The blocks can be nested within each other. 4) The PL/SQL engine processes the statements in blocks. The block typically looks like DECLARE BEGIN EXCEPTION END 

#### PL/SQL Architecture

The architecture consists of PL/SQL block, PL/SQL engine and an oracle server in which the PL/SQL engine is embedded. PL/SQL block of statements are sent to the PL/SQL engine for processing. The PL/SQL engine executes procedural statements but sends SQL statements to the SQL engine in the Oracle database. 

#### Basic Structure of PL/SQL

A PL/SQL block consists of:- DECLARATIVE section- This is where all variables are declared. BEGIN section- This section contains the PL/SQL block. The statements of code are written in this block. EXCEPTION- Any exceptions that are anticipated are written here. 

#### Variables and Types

Just like in any other language, PL/SQL constants and variables need to be declared before using them in your statements. The variables are declared in the BEGIN section. Variables can take data types as CHAR, DATE, or NUMBER. Example for declaring variables: DECLARE Student_id NUMBER(6); student_name VARCHAR2(20); 

#### Simple PL/SQL Programs

a)To give 10% hike in current salary from employee table and insert into appraisal table. DECLARE salary NUMBER(8,2); emp_id NUMBER(6) := 100; BEGIN SELECT salary * 0.10 INTO appraisal FROM employees WHERE employee_id = emp_id; END; b)To display employees with id < 100\. BEGIN FOR someone IN (SELECT * FROM employees WHERE employee_id < 100 ) LOOP DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('First name = ' || someone.first_name || ', Last name = ' || someone.last_name); END LOOP; END; 

#### Create Pl/SQL block dynamically and then execute it by calling 'DBMS_SQL.EXECUTE'

DBMS_SQL.EXECUTE function is used to execute cursor. It accepts the id of the cursor and returns the number of rows processed. Syntax: DBMS_SQL.EXECUTE ( c IN INTEGER) RETURN INTEGER; Where c is the id of cursor. 

#### Explain the statement provided by PL/SQL, i.e. Conditional Control Statements, Iterative Statements, Sequential Control Statements

Conditional control statements: they are the typical IF/ELSE statements. IF clause checks a condition, the THEN clause defines what to do if the condition is true and the ELSE clause defines what to do if the condition is false or null. Example: IF sal < 3000 THEN sal_increment := .12; ELSE sal_raise := .09; END IF; Iterative statements: Iterative statements uses loops to execute statements in iterations. The FOR loop for instance, lets you specify a range and then execute the statements. Example: FOR i in 1..100 LOOP SOME STATEMENTS END LOOP; Sequential Control Statements:- GOTO is an example of Sequential control statements. GOTO statement transfers control to the labeled statement. Example: IF total > 25000 THEN GOTO print_total; ELSE GOTO calc_total; 

#### SQL vs. PL/SQL

SQL is a structured query language while PL/SQL is an extension of SQL by introducing a procedural flow. PL/SQL has blocks of statements. PL/SQL works like other procedural languages and has concepts like control statements, sequential statements, exception handling etc. 

#### Both PL/SQL and Java/.NET code can be used to create Oracle stored procedures and triggers. Which of the one should be used and why?

  Even though both PL/SQL and Java/.NET can be used, PL/SQL stands above these two in terms of integration overhead. This is because Java is an open source proprietary and Data manipulation is slightly faster in PL/SQL than in Java. 

#### Explain how to see modified code in oracle, i.e. using Oracle Data Dictionary

Data dictionary in oracle is a read only set of tables providing information about changed schema objects, default values and lot more. The data dictionary is stored in database’s SYSTEM tablespace. We can use SQL statements (select only) to view data of data dictionary. 

#### Explain how to keep a history of PL/SQL code changes.

Using AFTER CREATE schema trigger, once can keep a history of changes to code. Example: CREATE OR REPLACE TRIGGER change_hist -- Store code in hist table AFTER CREATE ON TEST.SCHEMA -- TEST IS schema name DECLARE BEGIN IF ORA_DICT_OBJ_TYPE in ('PROCEDURE', 'FUNCTION', 'PACKAGE', 'PACKAGE BODY', 'TYPE', 'TYPE BODY') THEN \-- Store old code in SOURCE_HIST table INSERT INTO SOURCE_HIST SELECT sysdate, all_source.* FROM ALL_SOURCE WHERE TYPE = ORA_DICT_OBJ_TYPE -- DICTIONARY_OBJ_TYPE IN 8i AND NAME = ORA_DICT_OBJ_NAME; -- DICTIONARY_OBJ_NAME IN 8i END IF; EXCEPTION WHEN OTHERS THEN raise_application_error(-20000, SQLERRM); END; 

#### Explain the purpose of binary wrapper utility in oracle. How can we protect PL/SQL source code?

PL/SQL code can be protected using the binary wrapper utility. It is located in the ORACLE_HOME/bin directory. Syntax: wrap iname=myscript.pls oname=xxxx.plb There is no way to unwrap the *.pls files and hence must be backed up. 

#### Explain how to debug PL/SQL program.

One can debug PL/SQL program by printing the output using DBMS_OUTPUT package. Put_line can be used to display a line as shown below: set serveroutput on //displays buffer begin dbms_output.put_line(‘Sample line'); end; 

#### How can we read and write operating system files from PL/SQL program?

The UTL_FILE database package can be used to read and write operating system files. You need to have read /write access rights in that directory before the package can be used. Example to write file: Fhandler is a variable of type UTL_FILE.FILE_TYPE UTL_FILE.PUTF(fHandler, 'Im writing to a file\n'); Example to read file: UTL_FILE.GET_LINE(fHandler, buf); 

#### How can we call DDL statements like CREATE, DROP, TRUNCATE, etc. from PL/SQL? Show in an example

EXECUTE IMMEDIATE command can be used to call DDL statements. Example: begin execute Immediate 'TRUNCATE TABLE employee'; end; How can we use dynamic SQL statements from PL/SQL? EXECUTE IMMEDIATE command can be used to call DDL statements. This is available after oracle 8i. Example: EXECUTE IMMEDIATE 'CREATE TABLE employee (id NUMBER)'; 

#### Difference between %TYPE and %ROWTYPE.

%type is used to declare a field of a table while %rowtype is used to declare a record with the same type as specified in that table, view or cursor. Example of %type: DECLARE v_EmployeeName emp.ename%TYPE Example of %rowtype DECLARE v_empployee emp%ROWTYPE; 

#### How can we execute an operating system command from PL/SQL? Example

There is no direct way to execute an OS command from PL/SQL. Indirect methods like database pipes, external procedure listeners can be used. The commands can be executed within the pipe and the listener picks it up and run the requests. Results are passed back on a different database pipe. 

#### Illustrate how to loop through table in PL/SQL.

Cursors can be used to loop through tables in PL/SQL. Example: Employee cursor all employees for subject. CURSOR emp_cur (v_sub_no subject.subjectno%TYPE) IS SELECT employeename FROM emp WHERE subjectno = v_ subjectno; 

#### What is a mutating and constraining table?

A mutating table is a table that is being modified by an INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE statement. When any such table is targeted by a trigger, oracle throws an error because it is under a mutated state. Such error also occurs if a trigger attempts to change the primary, foreign or unique key columns of the table. Such tables are constraining tables. 

#### Difference between stored procedures and functions

Stored procedures don’t return any value while functions return values. Stored procedures are mainly used to process a task while functions are used to calculate. Functions can be called from procedures while the other way is not possible. 

##### _PL/SQL error handling - June 17, 2010 at 11:20 AM by Rajmeet Ghai_

Overview of PL/SQL Error Handling Advantages of PL/SQL Exceptions Explain some of the commonly used Predefined PL/SQL Exceptions. What is user-defined exception? Explain it with an example. Explain how PL/SQL exceptions are raised. Illustrate reraising a PL/SQL Exception. Demostrate how to handle raised PL/SQL exceptions. Tips for handling PL/SQL errors. 

#### Overview of PL/SQL Error Handling

When the system throws a warning or has an error it can lead to an exception. Such exception needs to be handled and can be defined internally or user defined. Exceptions stop normal execution. Internal exceptions are the ones handled by system like divide by zero, out of memory etc. 

#### Advantages of PL/SQL Exceptions

They improve readability of the code by separating the error routines in the code. Exceptions help you handle errors. Each and every point of error need not be checked as exception handler can be added to the PL/SQL block. 

#### Explain some of the commonly used Predefined PL/SQL Exceptions.

1)Divide by zero – This is raised when any number is attempted to divide by zero. 2)TOO MANY ROWS- A SELECT INTO statement returns more than one row. 3)CASE_NOT_FOUND- No choice in the WHEN clause of a case statement is selected. 4)LOGIN_DENIED- An attempt to login with an invalid username or password. 5)PROGRAM_ERROR- An internal PL/SQL problem. 

#### What is user-defined exception? Explain it with an example.

A user-defined exception is what the programmer defines depending on the needs. These exceptions need to be explicitly raised. Example: DECLARE salary_due EXCEPTION; They can be raised by giving the command RAISE salary_due. 

#### Explain how PL/SQL exceptions are raised.

PL/SQL exceptions are raised using the RAISE command. This command is used when exceptions are defined by programmer and not implicit exceptions. Example: Declare and raising an exception: DECLARE short_of_attendance EXCEPTION; min_attendance NUMBER(4); BEGIN ... IF min_attendance < 10 THEN RAISE short_of_attendance; END IF; EXCEPTION WHEN short_of_attendance THEN \-- handle the error END; 

#### Illustrate reraising a PL/SQL Exception.

Reraising an exception is possible by handling it locally Example: DECLARE out_of_attendance EXCEPTION; BEGIN ... BEGIN ---------- sub-block begins ... IF ... THEN RAISE out_of_attendance; -- raise the exception END IF; EXCEPTION WHEN out_of_attendance THEN \-- handle the error RAISE; -- reraise the current exception END; ------------ sub-block ends EXCEPTION WHEN out_of_attendance THEN \-- handle the error differently ... END; 

#### Demostrate how to handle raised PL/SQL exceptions.

Raised exceptions are caught using exception handlers that help handling the exceptions to let the system know what suitable action needs to be taken. Example: When the exception is raised, sequence of statements let the system know what action needs to be taken. EXCEPTION WHEN exception_name1 THEN -- handler sequence_of_statements1 WHEN exception_name2 THEN -- another handler sequence_of_statements2. 

#### Tips for handling PL/SQL errors.

1)When an exception is raised it should be handled well so that system does not collapse. 2)When an exception is raised, retry the transaction rather than abandoning it. 3)Make use of locator variables to track statement executions. 

##### _PL/SQL cursors - June 17, 2010 at 11:20 AM by Rajmeet Ghai_

What are Cursors? Types of cursors in PL/SQL - Implicit cursors, Explicit cursors Define cursor attributes: %FOUND, %NOTFOUND, %ROWCOUNT, and %ISOPEN What are cursor variables? Explain with an example Significance of SELECT FOR UPDATE clause. Write syntax Significance of WHERE CURRENT OF clause. Write syntax Why do we use cursor variables? What are the restrictions on cursor variables? 

#### What are Cursors?

Cursors help you manipulate the information retrieved by select statements. This can be done by assigning a name to the cursor. Example: CURSOR emp_cur IS SELECT emp_number from employee_tbl where employee_name = name_in; 

#### Types of cursors in PL/SQL - Implicit cursors, Explicit cursors

Implicit cursors- These cursors are not declared by the programmer. They are issued when the SQL statement is executed. The open, close and fetching is done by itself. Example: UPDATE employee SET salary = salary * 2.1; Here, an implicit cursor is issued to identify the set of rows in the table which would be affected by the update. Explicit cursors- These cursors are defined by programmer. They are used in queries that return multiple rows. Example: CURSOR emp_cur IS SELECT emp_number from employee_tbl where employee_name = name_in; 

#### Define cursor attributes: %FOUND, %NOTFOUND, %ROWCOUNT, and %ISOPEN

%FOUND- This is a Boolean variable which evaluates to TRUE if the last row is successfully fetched. %NOTFOUND- This is a Boolean variable which evaluates to TRUE if the last row is not successfully fetched. This means there are no more rows to fetch. %ROWCOUNT- Returns the number of rows fetched by the cursor. %ISOPEN- If the cursor is open, it evaluates to TRUE else FALSE. 

#### What are cursor variables? Explain with an example

Cursor variables are references to the query set or the rows. They help you traverse the rows and most importantly, they help you pass results from one PL/SDQL program to another. Example: DECLARE /* Create the cursor type. */ TYPE employee_curtype IS REF CURSOR RETURN employee %ROWTYPE; /* Declare a cursor variable of that type. */ employee_curvar employee_curtype; 

#### Significance of SELECT FOR UPDATE clause. Write syntax

SELECT FOR UPDATE statement selects the rows in the cursor result set in order to lock them. The lock is released in the next commit or rollback statement. Syntax: CURSOR cursor_name IS select_statement FOR UPDATE [of column_list] [NOWAIT]; 

#### Significance of WHERE CURRENT OF clause. Write syntax

WHERE CURRENT OF clause enables you to update or delete last fetched record by the cursor. These records are referenced by the SELECT FOR UPDATE clause. Syntax: UPDATE table_name SET set_clause WHERE CURRENT OF cursor_name; 

#### Why do we use cursor variables?

Cursor variables allow you to pass them as arguments to a function which in turn enables you to share results. They allow you to assign contents of one cursor to another variable. Using a single cursor variable you can fetch from different result sets. 

#### What are the restrictions on cursor variables?

a)Because cursor variables have no persistent state, they cannot be declared in a package. b)RPC’s cannot be used to pass cursor variables. c)NULL values cannot be assigned to cursor variables d)They cannot be used by dynamic SQL. e)They cannot be used with operators for equality etc. What is a PL/SQL package? Advantages of PL/SQL Packages What are the types and layers of Packages? Explain them PL/SQL Packages features Guidelines for writing packages 

##### _PL/SQL packages - June 17, 2010 at 11:20 AM by Sridevi Vijayaragavan_

#### What is a PL/SQL package?

A package is a collection of related PL/SQL objects. The package contains a body and a specification. The package specification has the declaration which is public and can be used in the PL/SQL sub programs inside the package. The package body holds the implementation of all the PL/SQL objects declared in the specification. Example of a PL/SQL Package. CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE emp_data AS PROCEDURE add_employee ( ename VARCHAR2, job VARCHAR2, mgr NUMBER, sal NUMBER, deptno NUMBER); END emp_actions; CREATE OR REPLACE PACKAGE BODY emp_data AS PROCEDURE add_employee ( ename VARCHAR2, job VARCHAR2, mgr NUMBER, sal NUMBER, deptno NUMBER) IS BEGIN INSERT INTO emp VALUES (empno_seq.NEXTVAL, ename, job, mgr, SYSDATE, comm, deptno); END add_employee; END emp_data; 

#### Advantages of PL/SQL Packages

Packages are easier for application designing, encapsulating data, additional functionality and better performance. An application has various modules which can be placed in packages and handled easier. 

#### What are the types and layers of Packages? Explain them

The different types of packages are Built – in , Pre-build and new packages build new based on requirements. The following are the layers of PL/SQL from the bottom – up approach 

  * SQL language layer is the lowest layer of the package.
  * A PL/SQL standard package is the next layer of the package.
  * Pre-built code and library packages.



#### PL/SQL Packages features

The PL/SQL packages allow you to declare Types, Cursors, exceptions, functions and procedures. All the initialization can be done in the package Specification and variables are initialized once. Private vs. Public items in Packages. The objects declared in the package specification are visible outside the package. The objects declared in the body of the implementation of the objects those are private variables. 

#### Guidelines for writing packages

1\. Packages need to be grouped with general PL/SQL subprograms so it can be reused in the entire application. 2\. Package specifications are not mandatory but its always a good practice to have them declared. 3\. Do not write more than 10,000 lines of code in package body. This may decrease the performance when a program is called from the package. 4\. Changes in package specifications need a recompiling of all the supported objects. But that is not required when changes are done to the body of the package. So keep changes to the specification at the least. 

##### _Oracle database performance tuning - June 11, 2010 at 15:30 PM by Babu Kunwar_

##### [Explain the purpose of tuning oracle database.](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-4.aspx>)

In simple words to improve the performance of our database we need to tune it. Following are the purpose of tuning database:................... [Read Answer](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-4.aspx>)

##### [Could you explain the areas where tuning of database is required?](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-5.aspx>)

The following are the areas of concern for tuning: Memory Usage, Data Storage, Data Manipulation........................ [Read Answer](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-5.aspx>)

##### [What are the tools provided by oracle to assist performace tuning? Explain them in brief](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-6.aspx>)

OEM which stands for Oracle Enterprise Manager is a valuable set of tools that facilitates the comprehensive management of all components of an Oracle infrastructure, including................. [Read Answer](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-6.aspx>)

##### [What is cost based optimization? When is it triggered?](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-7.aspx>)

Cost based optimizer as the name suggest does not talk in sense of money. Optimizer means to get best out of the given resource. In Oracle CBO is used so that the tables and indexes.................... [Read Answer](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-7.aspx>)

##### [Explain the factor that can cause the execution plan of a query to change.](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-8.aspx>)

Execution plans are the steps that the database will go through while executing queries. They are generated via the explain plan or set auto trace commands. The execution plans can................... [Read Answer](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-8.aspx>)

##### [What is index monitoring feature in oracle? Explain how to use it for index optimization](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-9.aspx>)

SQL engine keeps indexes of all the tables that are defined inside a particular database which cause a large amount of the CPU and I/O usage. Index monitoring is a feature that is used to identify.................... [Read Answer](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-9.aspx>)

##### [Describe when to rebuild an index.](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-10.aspx>)

When we execute more number of insert and update queries for a particular database we need to rebuild indexes. Secondly when we execute a lot of delete queries inside a database..................... [Read Answer](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-10.aspx>)

##### [Explain the purpose of DBFile Sequential and Scattered Reads.](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-11.aspx>)

**DBFile:** DB_FILES is the maximum number of datafiles that can be opened for a database.................... [Read Answer](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-11.aspx>)

##### [Explain how to tune the Redo log buffer.](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-12.aspx>)

Redo log buffer is used for logging the events that has happened in database, that is it is used for keeping the track of changes that is taking place to a particular database.................... [Read Answer](<http://www.careerride.com/oracle-12.aspx>)
