---
title: "Soap UI"
date: 2014-07-07 05:13:25 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: soap-ui
status: publish
---

* Ref: http://sqa.fyicenter.com/FAQ/SoapUI/
  * REST sample api : http://weather.yahooapis.com/forecastrss?w=906357
  * http://www.soapui.org/REST-Testing/understanding-rest-parameters.html

**What is SoapUI?** SoapUI is a tool for Testing Web Service, these can be the SOAP Web Services as well RESTful Web Services or HTTP based services. SoapUI is an Open Source and completely free tool with a commercial companion -SoapUI Pro- that has extra functionality for companies with mission critical Web Services. SoapUI has been downloaded more than one million times and is seen as the de facto standard for Web Service Testing. This means there is a lot of knowledge about the tool out there, read the blogs on the net for more info about using SoapUI in real life. We appreciate every download and work really hard to create a super product for you. If you have any ideas or thought, please let us know! **What can I use SoapUI for?** SoapUI can be used for Web Service testing , in many fashions, you can do Functional Testing, Performance Testing, Interoperability Testing, Regression Testing and much more. We aim for the testing to be quite easy to get going, for example in order to create a Load Test, you just right click a functional test and run it as a load test. You can simulate Web Services. You can record tests and use them Later. You can create code stubs from the WSDL. You can even create REST specifications (WADL)from recorded communication. There is so much you can do, we encourage you to look through the documentation and play around with the tool. **Does SoapUI work with any Web Service technology?** SoapUI is platform agnostic, you can use it for Web Services created with .NET, J2EE, Perl, PHP, etc. The only requirements on your Web Service are that they have a defining WSDL, that they are bound with the SOAP/HTTP binding, and that they do not use SOAP-Encoding (if you want to do validations) **How to create a SoapUI project?** The SoapUI project is the central point in all SoapUI testing. Once the project is created, you can create and run Functional Tests, LoadTests, create MockServices or much more. In this tutorial, we will walk through two things how to: 1. Create a SoapUI project --In the navigator, which is the tree structure at the left in the SoapUI GUI, right click on the project node --In the New SoapUI Project dialog enter a project name and click OK --This will create a new project in the Navigator. 2. Add a WSDL In SoapUI the projects mostly are based on a WSDL. It’s not necessary to start by importing a WSDL, but it makes testing easier since the WSDL contains all information you need about the web service tested; information about the requests and responses, what they contain and much more, which simplifies SoapUI testing greatly. Let’s add a WSDL to the project; 1. Right click on the project node and select Add WSDL 2. Enter 3..You should now see that the WSDL was successfully added to the project by seeing the operations in the Web Service in the navigator. 4. You can double click the Project for a window that gives you overview of your project. As your project and test skills grow, this view will be very important since you can manage a great deal of things at project level, like JDBC Connections (SoapUI Pro only), Security Configurations. SoapUI even contains basic Requirements functionality in the Project Window. 5. You can also double click the Interface for an Interface view **How do I save the changes I make to my projects, requests, TestCases, etc?** SoapUI automatically saves everything on exit. If you want to save your projects without exiting (for example if you want to commit your project file to CVS) use the "Save All" option in the main File menu **I have updated my XML Schema for my service but SoapUI still generates/validates according to the old schema.** SoapUI caches XML schemas when they are first loaded. If you need to force a reload of an interfaces schema either restart SoapUI or use the "Update Definition" action for an interface and just specify the same URL as the current one. **What kind of system do I need to run SoapUI?** SoapUI is java based, so it runs on most operating systems, We test it on several Windows Versions as well as Mac and the multiple Linux dialects. SoapUI requires a 1.6+ version of the JRE (Java Runtime Environment), at least 1 GB of memory is recommended, and about 100 MB of disk space. If you are installing with the installer or the standalone distributions, the JRE is included and not required on your system. Otherwise make sure it is installed and the JAVA_HOME environment variable is set correspondingly. **How do I transfer a license from one computer to another?** To be able to transfer your license from Computer A to Computer B, please do the following (for more information, read this): 1. Deactivate your license in SoapUI Pro on computer A (in the Help Menu, click Deactivate License). 2. Locate your license on Computer A. 3. Copy the license to an external storage e.g. a USB stick. 4. Copy the license from the USB to a folder of your choice on Computer B. 5. In SoapUI Pro, on Computer B, go to the Help Menu - Select Update License - Browse where you saved your license and click on OK **What languages are supported? What is Groovy?** Groovy and JavaScript Groovy... * is an agile and dynamic language for the Java Virtual Machine * builds upon the strengths of Java but has additional power features inspired by languages like Python, Ruby and Smalltalk * makes modern programming features available to Java developers with almost-zero learning curve * provides the ability to statically type check and statically compile your code * supports Domain-Specific Languages and other compact syntax so your code becomes easy to read and maintain * makes writing shell and build scripts easy with its powerful processing primitives, OO abilities and an Ant DSL * increases developer productivity by reducing scaffolding code when developing web, GUI, database or console applications * simplifies testing by supporting unit testing and mocking out-of-the-box * seamlessly integrates with all existing Java classes and libraries * compiles straight to Java bytecode so you can use it anywhere you can use Java **Why use SoapUI Pro for Functional Testing?** While the Open Source version can be seen as the Swiss-Army knife for testing, SoapUI Pro is the tool with the sharpest edge. Applied to the Functional Testing area, SoapUI Pro focus on enhancing efficiency and usability. With Point and Click Testing, you can drag and drop instead of manually writing the code. The Form Editor creates a form from your request, further eliminating the need for you to spend time on repetitive coding. These functions make, in combination with The Outline Editor who simplifies and exposes the XML structure, your testing more fun and less time consuming. If creativity, flow and speed are important to you as a tester, SoapUI Pro is too. **How to create a test from a request in your WSDL** 1\. Click on the plus sign next to the web service in the navigator to expand. 2. Double click on the request. 3. In the request editor, select Add This Request to TestCase. SoapUI Pro takes the definition of the request and makes a form for you to enter information in. This may be especially useful when doing manual testing or if you want non-technical staff to enter a request. 4. Adding a request to a TestCase will open the Create TestSuite dialog box. Enter a name for your TestSuite and click OK. 5. After clicking OK, you will be asked to create a TestCase. In the Create TestCase dialog, enter a name for your TestCase and click OK. 6. Next, the dialog box Add Request to TestCase will appear. Click OK. 7. SoapUI Pro will now generate a TestSuite and TestCase for you while the request will be added as a TestRequest. Below is a copy of the request that appears in the interface. A TestCase editor will also open with your new TestRequest. **How to add an Assertion to the test ?** 1\. Close all windows you have open in soupUI before starting. Double Click on your Test Request as shown below. This will open the request editor. 2. In the request editor, Click the Add an Assertion to Test Request button. 3. Select Response SLA from the drop down in the Select Assertion dialog box. 4. In the Configure Response SLA Assertion dialog box, write 500 and click OK. This will validate that the response of the SLA is under 500. 5. Now that you've added the assertion, you are going to run the request to validate the response. If all assertions are successful, the SOAP icon should turn green in three places . 6. You can also validate the response by adding an XPath Match assertion. 7. In SoapUI Pro you can open the Select XPath dialog, which let's you select nodes to assert using point-and-click. As a result SoapUI creates the matching XPath expression that refers to the selected node. 8. SoapUI automatically populates the expected result to match what's in the response. But of course, you can change this to what's relevant for you. 9. Now let's try and enter the ianacode SE (for Sweden) as a request, and execute the test. 10. Oh no! The test failed! SoapUI gives us a red icon in three different places, and the Assertions-tab expands telling us that our XPath Assertion failed. This is because we said that the allregionslist should contain the US states, and we asked for the Swedish regions. 11. Change back the ianacode to US and try executing the test again. You will now see that all assertion are set to "VALID". This is because the we now get the list of US States in the response, which is what the XPath Assertion is looking for. **soapUI structures functional tests ?** soapUI structures functional tests into three levels; TestSuites, TestCases and TestSteps. 1. A TestSuite is a collection of TestCases that can be used for grouping functional tests into logical units. Any number of TestSuites can be created inside a soapUI project to support massive testing scenarios. 2. A TestCase is a collection of TestSteps that are assembled to test some specific aspect of your service(s). You can add any number of TestCases to a containing TestSuite and even modularize them to call each other for complex testing scenarios. 3. TestSteps are the "building blocks" of functional tests in soapUI. They are added to a TestCase and used control the flow of execution and validate the functionality of the service(s) to be tested **What is TestSteps ?** TestSteps are the core building blocks of functional tests in soapUI; each TestStep performs some step for validating the functionality to be tested. TestSteps are by default executed sequentially, but several possibilities exist for branching, looping and even calling other TestCases, making complex testing possible when required. Currently the following sampler TestSteps are available: * SOAP Request - sends a SOAP Request over either HTTP, HTTPS or JMS and receives the response if there is one. SOAP Request TestSteps are tied to a corresponding WSDL Operation and its WSDL Interface added to a project when importing its WSDL. * REST Request - sends a REST request over HTTP, HTTPS or JMS and receives the response if there is one. REST Request TestSteps are tied to a corresponding REST Service, Resource and Method in the containing soapUI Project. * JDBC Request - sends a database query or stored procedure call to the configured database and returns the result as an XML string * AMF Request - sends an AMF request over HTTP or HTTPS and returns the result as an XML String * HTTP Request - sends an arbitrary HTTP Request over HTTP, HTTPS or JMS and returns the results as an XML String * MockResponse - listens and waits for an HTTP or HTTPS request and returns a configured response; used for testing of callbacks and asynchronous processes. **How to Start up the TestCase** When starting a TestCase the following actions are taken internally: 1. A context for the execution of the TestCase is initialized. This is passed to all scripts, property-expansions, etc that will occur during the execution of the TestCase allowing you to share resources, data, etc between them. For example, soapUI uses this internally to store an HttpState object in the context when the "Maintain HTTP Session" option has been selected in the TestCase Options dialog. 2. The setup script of the TestCase is executed. 3. If a maximum execution time has been specified in the TestCase options dialog, a corresponding times is started that will terminate (and fail) the TestCase if it hasn't finished in the configured time 4. A beforeRun event is triggered to all applicable TestRunListeners (defined either externally or as Event Handlers at the project level) 5. Any WS-RM or AMF related session or transaction initializations are performed as configured under the corresponding tabs in the TestCase Options dialog. **How to Execute the TestSteps** 1\. The beforeTestStep event is triggered to all applicable TestRunListeners 2. The TestStep itself is run and its TestStepResult is added to the testRunner.results collection * If the TestStep itself executes other TestSteps (for example a Run TestCase TestStep or Script TestStep calling testRunner.runTestStepXXX), these are recursively executed as described here 3. The afterTestStep event is triggered to all applicable TestRunListeners 4. If running in the UI, the corresponding log is updated with the TestStepResult saved in (2); **How does soapUI runs a LoadTest for your TestCase ?** When soapUI runs a LoadTest for your TestCase, it internally creates complete copies of the TestCase for each executing Thread. Each thread then runs the TestCase exactly as described above with a number of LoadTest specific additions: * The context available in the TestCase contains a LoadRunContext property holding the context of the LoadTest. Use this to share data or resources between executing threads in your LoadTest * LoadTestRunListener events are triggered for TestRunListener counterparts described above, allowing you to create handlers/listeners that operate on a LoadTest level for all running TestCases (or Threads) * Any TestStep result that leads to the failure of a LoadTest Assertion is never discarded from memory, * Any TestStep result that does not lead to a LoadTest Assertion failure is always discarded from memory if the "Discard OK Results" option is set **What is Data-Driven testing?** Quite simply put, data-driven testing is when you store test data (input, expected output, etc) in some external storage (database, spreadsheet, xml-files, etc) and then use that data iteratively in your tests when running them. For example to test your phone-lookup service, you might have a list of names and expected phone-numbers in a database which you would use to "drive" your test, checking that each name gets the right phone-number back. It's really quite simple. **How to creatw data-driven tests ?** In SoapUI Pro, creating data-driven tests is really easy. A DataSource TestStep is available for reading test-data into standard SoapUI properties from a number of external sources (Excel files, XML properties, JDBC sources, files/directories, etc), these can then be used in following TestSteps (requests, assertions, xpath-queries, scripts, etc,) either via Property-Transfers or standard Property-Expansions. Finally follows a DataSource Loop TestStep which is configured to loop back over the previous TestSteps for each row/record in the DataSource. What this boils down to is the following setup: 1. DataSource - reads test data into properties from external source 2. TestSteps (any number) - tests service functionality using the DataSource properties made available in (1) 3. DataSource Loop - loops back to (2) for each row in (1) **How to Use LoadUI for load testing ?** If you want to bring the most out of your load testing you should download SoapUI's new pal, LoadUI. LoadUI is a free load testing tool that is customized to make load testing in SoapUI easier and more efficient. Since LoadUI is made to collaborate with SoapUI, it is easy to install and integrate with SoapUI. It also has a built-in widget which allows you to quickly get started load testing your SoapUI tests. To get started, you can simply right-click on your test in SoapUI and select Run with LoadUI. This will automatically open your test in LoadUI, given that you have LoadUI installed. SoapUI and LoadUI will synchronize within seconds after saving, keeping your testing constantly updated. **How to Use SoapUI for load testing ?** Load Testing is quite unique in SoapUI, we have created a functionality that allows you to create Performance Tests quickly and modify them easily. The main differentiator is that Performance Tests in SoapUI generally is created from existing Functional Tests. This allows you to very quickly create advanced Performance Tests. You can then validate a Web Service performance under different Load scenarios, maintain functional validations to see that they don't break under load, run several load tests simultaneously to see how they affect each other and much more. Let's move on to the tutorial. What we are going to learn is the following: 1. Create a new LoadTest 2. Run The LoadTest 3. Add Assertions to the LoadTest **What is Mocking? ?** Service Mocking, or simulation, is the practice of creating a facsimile environment that works similar to the environment you’re facsimileing Mocking is also called Isolation, Simulation, or Virtualization, but those are term basically created to move the lowly practice of mocking higher into the value chain. So, for all purposes Isolation, Simulation, and Virtualization are the same as mocking, just much more expensive. Let's call it mocking and move on to the uses of it. When do I Use Mocking? Simple; you should use mocks when you can’t use the real thing. Of course it’s not that easy when you look into it more carefully, so let’s look at some of the how’s and what’s **How to Create a MockService ?** 1\. Right-click on one of the SOAP interfaces and select Generate MockService. 2. In the dialog Generate Mock Service you can specify the local port/path for the service you're creating but for the moment just click OK. 3. Enter the name of your MockService in the Name dialog and click OK. 4. After creating the MockService, you should get a MockService with one operation and one request. **How to Edite a MockService ?** 1\. Now, double click on the MockService to see the MockService editor. In the editor we can see a list of all operations for the service, as well as a request and response log which logs all incoming requests that have been handled by the MockService. 2. Double Click on the Conversion Rate Operation to see the MockResponses we have in the MockService 3. As you can see we do only have one, Let's edit it, double click on it to open the Response Editor. 4. The MockResponse editor is very similar to the standard SoapUI Request editor , but instead of requests, we'll edit responses. The Incoming Request view is still very useful; it shows the last received request to the operation which is useful for debugging client calls, including attachments and HTTP headers. Edit the ConversionRateResult to be something else than the default empty value "?". **How to Invoking a MockService ?** 1\. First we must start the MockService. Click the Start button in the MockService editor, run, this will start the service on the configured port and path. To the Top Right of the Editor you should see that it's running, and the port it's responding on. The play Button is greyed out and if you would like to stop the MockService, just click the stop button. 2. In the MockResponse editor, Click the Button Create Request. 3. This will prompt you to to open one of the existing requests for its operation in your project. 4. You will also need to give it a name 5. When you open the request, SoapUI will automatically change its endpoint to the endpoint of the locally running MockService instead of the endpoint that the WSDL is using. Submit the opened request by clicking the Run Button. 6. If you switch back to the MockResponse editor and select its Incoming Request view, you should be able to see the request that was posted to the MockService and handled by the MockOperation. **What is a Security Test?** A Security Test is used in soapUI to scan your target services for common security vulnerabilities, like for example SQL Injections and XML Bombs. Security Tests are layered “on top” of an existing TestCase to which it then applies a configurable number of “Security Scans” which perform the actual vulnerability scanning and detection. **Getting Started with Security Testing** 1\. Create a Functional TestCase (or use an existing one) 2. Add a Security Test You can see an empty “Security Tests” node in the left tree (see above image), right click it and select the “New SecurityTest” option, this opens the following dialog (if you are using the free version, read further down): 3. Run the Security Test Run the Test by pressing the green arrow on the top left (make sure the target service is running, in our case this is the MockService), you will see ongoing progress for each TestStep and configured Security Scans in the Security Test window: 4. Analyze the Results The Security Log at the bottom of the Security Test window shows detailed information on failed Security Scans, click on a Security Scan in the main window and the log will scroll to that Scans entries: 5. Create a Report Make your managers happy by sending them a report of indicating the immense stability of your services; press the "Create Report" button in the top menu which opens the familiar report preview **Recording HTTP Traffic** the HTTP Monitor is one of the most overlooked features in soapUI. This nifty feature allows you to monitor, record, analyze and even modify HTTP traffic as it is been transferred between an existing client and server application. It even supports WS-Security and SSL decryption (if you have all the necessary keystores available) for digging into encrypted messages. The HTTP Monitor is a handy feature in soapUI for capturing and analyzing SOAP traffic going between an existing client and server. It is launched via the right-button menu of a soapUI Project. Proxy In proxy-mode, soapUI acts as a standard HTTP Proxy forwarding messages received from the client to the specified host. The client in its turn must be configured to use soapUI as an HTTP proxy, either via system properties or some other configuration option. This has the advantage of not requiring you to change the actual endpoint the client is using to access the service (usually the proxy can be configured "outside" of your clients environment). HTTP Tunnel In tunnel-mode, the client must be configured to send its requests directly to soapUI, which will tunnel the request to the specified target host and return the response back. The advantage is that it does not make use of the HTTP Proxy mechanism (which may not be supported/configurable/etc), and also allows for the possibility to intercept SSL-encrypted traffic. WS-Security and SSL Support In either mode you have the possibility to specify an Incoming WSS configuration that will be used to decrypt and/or verify signatures in these messages, either the request coming from the client or the response coming from the server. Adding WS-Security to an outgoing message is not currently possible. * Easy import of WSDLs and default request generation allows for ad-hoc testing and exploring of services * Support for commonly used standards like WS-Security, WS-Addressing, WS-ReliableMessaging, MTOM, etc allow for testing of advanced services and scenarios * Integrated WS-I compatibility testing tools allow you to validate both your contracts and messages for industry-standard compliance * The SOAP Request TestStep allows for extensive functional testing and validation of services through a variety of assertion and scripting possibilities * Load testing of SOAP/WSDL Services is supported as a natural extension to SoapUI functional tests * Service Simulations (“MockServices”) can be instantly created from your WSDL and run inside SoapUI for simulating both simple and complex client behavior * A graphical front end for generating code with the most popular web service development frameworks is provided, allowing you to easily compared frameworks and their artifacts * All functional test, load tests and MockServices can easily be run both from inside SoapUI and via included command-line tools. * WSDL Coverage functionality gives you a unique insight into the coverage of your tests in relationship to the tested contracts; have you tested all elements? Attributes? Etc... * WSDL Refactoring allows you to automatically update your tests and simulations to be compliant with new versions of your WSDLs * Advanced editors and wizards in SoapUI Pro make testing and exploring of services easy for non-technical users and testers. **How to Get and Set properties ?** Getting properties from groovy is straight-forward; all objects that contain properties have a getPropertyValue / setPropertyValue methods. The following examples are from inside a Groovy Script step: 01.// get properties from testCase, testSuite and project 02.def testCaseProperty = testRunner.testCase.getPropertyValue( "MyProp" ) 03.def testSuiteProperty = testRunner.testCase.testSuite.getPropertyValue( "MyProp" ) 04.def projectProperty = testRunner.testCase.testSuite.project.getPropertyValue( "MyProp" ) 05.def globalProperty = com.eviware.soapui.SoapUI.globalProperties.getPropertyValue( "MyProp" ) 06. 07.// setting values is equally straigh forward 08.testRunner.testCase.setPropertyValue( "MyProp", someValue ) 09.testRunner.testCase.testSuite.setPropertyValue( "MyProp", someValue ) 10.testRunner.testCase.testSuite.project.setPropertyValue( "MyProp", someValue ) 11.com.eviware.soapui.SoapUI.globalProperties.setPropertyValue( "MyProp", someValue ) **How to Get and Set Settings ?** Global preferences can be set via the SoapUI.settings property, the different tabs have corresponding Settings interfaces in the com.eviware.soapui.settings package, each interface defines constants for each settings. So for example to set the SSL Keystore and password programmatically, you could call 01.import com.eviware.soapui.settings.SSLSettings 02.import com.eviware.soapui.SoapUI 03. 04.// set 05.SoapUI.settings.setString( SSLSettings.KEYSTORE, pathToKeystore ) 06.SoapUI.settings.setString( SSLSettings.KEYSTORE_PASSWORD, keystorePassword ) 07. 08.// get 09.SoapUI.settings.getString( SSLSettings.KEYSTORE, "value to return if there is no such setting set" ) **How to access the Project name from a Groovy Script TestStep:?** testRunner.testCase.testSuite.project.name (almost all items have a name property) **How you could conditionally expand a property in a request?** This is how you could conditionally expand a property in a request, or similar, based on the value of a third custom property. If the selection TestCase property has the value "selection" the TestCase property myFirstXMLSnippet will be expanded, else mySecondXMLSnippet will be expanded: 1.${= testCase.getPropertyValue( "selection" ) == "first" ? testCase.getPropertyValue( "myFirstXMLSnippet" ) : testCase.getPropertyValue( "mySecondXMLSnippet" )} **An example for Implementing Groovy DataSources and DataSink** Here's an example Groovy DataSource to get you going: 01.def groovyUtils = new com.eviware.soapui.support.GroovyUtils(context) 02.def projectPath = groovyUtils.projectPath 03.def folderName = projectPath + "/testData" 04.def row = testRunner.testCase.testSteps["DataSource"].currentRow 05.def allFiles = [] 06.new File( folderName ).eachFile() { file -> 07\. if( file.name =~ /.txt/ ) 08. { 09. allFiles.add( file.name ) } 10. } 11. 12.if ( (row + 1) <= allFiles.size ) 13.{ 14. // output to the TestStep property called inputData 15. result["inputData"] = new File( folderName + "/" + allFiles[row] ).text 16.} Here's an example Groovy DataSink : 1.// Write the response from the "Test Request: login" TestStep to a file 2.def currentUser = context.expand( '${#TestCase#currentUser}' ) 3.def response = context.expand( '${Test Request: login#Response}' ) 4.new File( "C:/Users/eviware/" + currentUser + "_response.txt" ).write( response ) 5. 6.// To use another charset than the default, do this instead: 7.// new File( "C:/Users/eviware/" + currentUser + "_response.txt" ).write( response, "UTF-8" ) **How to Aggregate multiple DataSource rows to the same request ?** Datasource elements to a property, and then use the property after exiting the loop. 1.def countryCode = context.expand( '${DataSource#CountryCode}' ) 2.def countryName = context.expand( '${DataSource#CountryName}' ) 3. 4.def frag = context.expand( '${Properties#XmlFragment}' ) 5. 6.def newPropertyValue = '${frag}${countryCode}${countryName}' 7.testRunner.testCase.setPropertyValue( 'XmlFragment', newPropertyValue ) **Randomizing DataSource rows** There is no built in support for DataSources fetching random rows in SoapUI, but this can be achieved with some scripting. Structure your TestCase like this: randomDataSource The TestSteps should contain the following: Original DataSource A DataSource test step for the actual data that you want to randomize. Use this as you would normally. Collect row 1.// create list if necessary 2.if( context["allRows"] == null ) context["allRows"] = [] 3. 4.// append current row from Original Source to allRows 5.context["allRows"] << context.expand( '${Original Source#output}' ) Original loop DataSource Loop that loops to Collect row (Target Step) for each row in Original Source (DataSource Step). Shuffle collected rows 1.Collections.shuffle( context["allRows"] ) Groovy DataSource view sourceprint? 1.def row = testRunner.testCase.testSteps["Groovy DataSource"].currentRow 2. 3.if ( row + 1 <= context["allRows"].size() ) 4.{ 5. result["randomRow"] = context["allRows"][row] 6.} Groovy DataSource loop DataSource Loop that loops to the first test step using the random data (Target Step) for each row in Groovy DataSource (DataSource Step). **XML nodes -- Iterate nodes** A common and equally straight forward task, use the GroovyUtils class to create an XmlHolder, which you can use for a variety of XML related activities: 1.// create groovyUtils and XmlHolder for response of Request 1 request 2.def groovyUtils = new com.eviware.soapui.support.GroovyUtils( context ) 3.def holder = groovyUtils.getXmlHolder( "Request 1#Response" ) 4. 5.// loop item nodes in response message 6.for( item in holder.getNodeValues( "//item" )) 7. log.info "Item : [$item]" If the desired content is namespace qualified (very likely for SOAP responses), you need to define the namespace first. Continuoing from above: 1.// define namespace 2.holder.namespaces["ns"] = "http://acme.com/mynamspace" 3. 4.// loop item nodes in response message 5.for( item in holder.getNodeValues( "//ns:item" )) 6. log.info "Item : [$item]" **XML nodes -- Count nodes** Use the GroovyUtils class to create an XmlHolder, which you can use for a variety of XML related activities: 1.// create groovyUtils and XmlHolder for response of Request 1 request 2.def groovyUtils = new com.eviware.soapui.support.GroovyUtils( context ) 3.def holder = groovyUtils.getXmlHolder( "Request 1#Response" ) 4. 5.def numberOfLinksInParagraphs = holder["count(//html/body/p/a)"] **How to access JMS headers ?** The example below sets the JMS header JMSCorrelationID to "foo4711" for myTestStep. 1.def myTestStep = testRunner.testCase.getTestStepByName("Some JMS TestStep") 2.def msgID = "foo4711" 3. 4.myTestStep.testRequest.jMSHeaderConfig.messageSelector = "JMSCorrelationID = '${msgID}'" **How to change a request XML from groovy ?** This example sets the password inside a request SOAP message: 01.def groovyUtils = new com.eviware.soapui.support.GroovyUtils( context ) 02. 03.// get XmlHolder for request message def 04.holder = groovyUtils.getXmlHolder( "login#Request" ) 05. 06.// change password using XPath 07.holder["//username"] = "test" 08. 09.// write updated request back to teststep 10.holder.updateProperty() **How to change response before it gets validated ?** For example if you want to change all 555 to 444 in all response messages, proper way is to use RequestFilter.afterRequest event handler and add script: 01.if( request.response == null ) 02. return 03. 04.// get response content 05.def content = context.httpResponse.responseContent 06. 07.// manipulate content 08.content = content.replaceAll( "555", "444" ) 09. 10.// write it back 11.context.httpResponse.responseContent = content **How to loop a sequence of TestSteps X times** A simple loop is easiest achieved by placing a Groovy Script TestStep after the last TestStep in the loop with the following content: 1.if( context.loopIndex == null ) 2. context.loopIndex = 0 3. 4.if( ++context.loopIndex < 10 ) 5. testRunner.gotoStepByName( "Name of first TestStep in loop" ) This script first creates the loop counter in the context and then loops back until the value is 10 (think of it as a do...while loop) **How to Start and stop MockServices ?** This can come in handy both from the Project onLoad script (if you want to start your MockServices when the project is opened) or from a TestCase/TestSuite setup script (if you need the MockService running for your functional tests). Here from a TestCase setup script: 1.def runner = testCase.testSuite.project.mockServices["My MockService"].start() 2.context.mockRunner = runner The returned runner object is required to stop the MockService... so save it to the context and use it in the tearDown script: 1.context.mockRunner.stop() Have a look at the WsdlMockService and the WsdlMockRunner classes for more methods and properties that might come in handy. **How to Save all TestStep's results into files ?** To save the result (request data, response data, response time, etc.) of every executed TestStep in a Project, create a Project EventHandler (Project Window > Events tab > Add new EventHandler) of type TestRunListener.afterStep with the following content: 1.filePath = 'c:/users/henrik/soapUI-results/' 2.fos = new FileOutputStream( filePath + testStepResult.testStep.label + '.txt', true ) 3.pw = new PrintWriter( fos ) 4.testStepResult.writeTo( pw ) 5.pw.close() 6.fos.close() **Logging the result messages of all TestSteps in all failing TestCases** This is intended to run in a TestSuite Teardown Script. 01.for ( testCaseResult in runner.results ) 02.{ 03. testCaseName = testCaseResult.getTestCase().name 04. log.info testCaseName 05. if ( testCaseResult.getStatus().toString() == 'FAILED' ) 06. { 07. log.info "$testCaseName has failed" 08. for ( testStepResult in testCaseResult.getResults() ) 09. { 10. testStepResult.messages.each() { msg -> log.info msg } 11. } 12. } 13.} **Determine whether a TestCase is run from the Command Line, as a LoadTest, etc.** 1.if( com.eviware.soapui.SoapUI.isCommandLine() ) 2.{ 3. log.info "This code is executed by Command Line SoapUI" 4.} 5.if( context.LoadTestContext != null ) 6.{ 7. log.info "This code is executed from a LoadTest" 8.} **Use a JDBC Driver from inside a groovy script** If you want to do direct JDBC calls from a groovy script you first need to register the driver as follows 1.// register MySQL JDBC driver 2.com.eviware.soapui.support.GroovyUtils.registerJdbcDriver( "com.mysql.jdbc.Driver" ) (note that you still have to add the actual JDBC Driver jar to the bin\ext folder) **Access SOAP Operations / REST Resources** This example accesses SOAP Operations in the Sample Project. 1.import com.eviware.soapui.impl.wsdl.WsdlInterface 2.myInterface = (WsdlInterface) testRunner.testCase.testSuite.project.getInterfaceByName("SampleServiceSoapBinding") 3.myOperation = myInterface.getOperationByName("login") 4.myRequest = myOperation.getRequestByName("Request 1")
