---
title: "QA - Common"
date: 2014-04-28 09:41:40 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: qa-common
status: publish
---

-SHELL---------------- Challenges faced in testing Challenges faced in automation testing How much TCs automated from n test cases approach of testing How about defects flow Automation testing approach in agile **How resolved conflicts**  
  
### A (Approach)

— Talk about the key actions that you took. In the case of a conflict story, the focus should be on how resolved the disagreement in a professional and productive way. **Example Approach Bullets** _• I was taken aback by his response, but I remained calm. I acknowledged that the deadlines were tight and explained again the reasoning and the importance of having the brochure ready for the trade show._ _• He relaxed a little when he saw that I wasn’t attacking him. He told me about all of his other competing projects and how overwhelmed he was. I asked him if there was any way that I could help him come up with a solution._ _• Eventually, we agreed that it would help if his manager had a better understanding of how important and time-consuming this project was. We decided we would speak with her together._ _• She ended up assigning some of his other projects to another designer, which took some of the pressure off of him._ **Why We Like Them** This candidate walks through the actions taken and why. He shows that he stayed calm under pressure, tackled the issue head-on, and was able to persuade others (the designer and his manager) to his point of view. **Tip:** Again, stick to the actions that are most relevant and that show your conflict-management prowess. 

### R (Results)

— Every good interview story includes a happy ending. End your response with a description of the positive outcome(s) of your action. These results can be quantifiable _(increased sales 20%, saved the company $25K)_ or anecdotal _(The client was thrilled and sent my manager an email, my manager loved my approach and gave me a promotion)._ **Example Results Bullets** _• As a result, the designer was able to focus on the brochure and meet the deadlines._ _• He apologized for his blow-up and thanked me for my help._ _• We successfully completed the brochure in time for the trade show and received numerous compliments from both our own sales reps and potential customers._ _• Our trade show presence led to $300,000 in new sales leads and I believe the new brochure played a key role in that._ **Why We Like Them** This is a nice, concise happy ending. The candidate describes the resolution of the conflict, the positive effect on the relationship with the designer, and the business outcome. **Tip:** The bottom-line results ($$$) make it even more impressive. This is not possible with every conflict-resolution story, but you should always pick the example with the most significant results. How client communication about failure of delivery career in 5 yrs **Test Data management** http://www.tutorialspoint.com/software_testing_dictionary/test_data_management.htm Test Data management is very critical during the test life cycle. The amount of data that is generated is enormous for testing the application. Reporting the results it minimizes the time spent for processing the data and creating reports greatly contributes to the efficiency of an entire product. 

## **Test data Management - Checklist:**

  * identify common test data elements
  * Aging, masking and archiving of test data
  * Prioritization and allocation of test data
  * Generating reports and dashboards for metrics
  * Creating and implementing business rules
  * Building an automation suite for master data preparation
  * Masking, archiving and versioning aging of data

**Approach of bugs piling up(bug increasing**) Use defect prevention technique. The tester has to be involve from the begining of the software development life cycle. During BRD discussion he can contribute in finding the loopholes. Then can do the peer reviews of the document. Most importantly he can do the risk analysis and provide the report of potential threats. **Orthogonal Testing** Combinational test technique, as the name suggests, is a technique of combining the data / entities as input parameters for testing, to increase the scope. This technique is beneficial when we have to test with huge number data having many permutations and combinations. The beauty of this technique is that, it maximizes the coverage by comparatively lesser number of test cases. The pairs of parameters which are identified should be independent of each other. It’s a [black box technique](<http://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/black-box-testing/> "Black box technique"), so like other BB technique; we don’t need to have the implementation knowledge of the system. The point here is to identify the correct pair of input parameters. http://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/combinational-test-technique/ \--------------   **What if no requirement spec is available**. **Challenges in functional testing**. 

  1. Define clear and complete requirement
  2. Functional gaps in the test plans
  3. Testers struggling while learning the product functionality by using the actual product build for the first time and due to mismatch between test plans and actual functionality.
  4. A large amount of time going towards test environment setup due to product complexity and an extensive set of supported configurations which need to be setup.
  5. Blocking issues found in the product functional areas lead to extensive replanning putting the initial overall at a stake.
  6. Inconsistency in the structure of defects reported by various test team members.
  7. Testers assigning improper Severity/Priority to defects.
  8. Testers opening new defects for the problem already reported by other testers as defects during previous test cycles.
  9. Time taken for resolving recurring issues
  10. Blocking issues in the functional areas.

**Challenges in Automation testing**

  1. Infrastructure, maintenance of the automation code, limitations in the test framework etc
  2. UI test automation to be particularly tricky in this area, especially for mobile devices. Even after defining a good test case and the automation to execute it in a mobile device, actually measuring the quality of the result in terms of graphics is still something that is mostly done manually.

**What if need to do testing, but no time and need to finish it same day.** Do a risk analysis and find the major functionality and test it. most of the times it is not possible to test the whole application within the specified time. In such situations it’s better to find out the risk factors in the projects and concentrate on them. **Here are some points to be considered when you are in such a situation:** 1) Find out Important functionality is your project? 2) Find out High-risk module of the project? 3) Which functionality is most visible to the user? 4) Which functionality has the largest safety impact? 5) Which functionality has the largest financial impact on users? 6) Which aspects of the application are most important to the customer? 7) Which parts of the code are most complex, and thus most subject to errors? 8) Which parts of the application were developed in rush or panic mode? 9) What do the developers think are the highest-risk aspects of the application? 10) What kinds of problems would cause the worst publicity? 11) What kinds of problems would cause the most customer service complaints? * **What is fist task a new changes comes when we had already started testing.** Do a impack analysis and find out which all places it will break when new functionality comes. **Explain the steps for Bug Cycle?**

  * Once the bug is identified by the tester, it is assigned to the development manager in open status
  * If the bug is a valid defect the development team will fix it and if it is not a valid defect, the defect will be ignored and marked as rejected
  * The next step will be to check whether it is in scope, if it is happen so that, the bug is not the part of the current release then the defects are postponed
  * If the defect or bug is raised earlier then the tester will assigned a DUPLICATE status
  * When bug is assigned to developer to fix, it will be given a IN-PROGRESS status
  * Once the defect is repaired, the status will changed to FIXED at the end the tester will give CLOSED status if it passes the final test.

**What is Agile testing and what is the importance of Agile testing?** **** Agile testing is software testing, which involves the testing of the software from the customer point of view. The importance of this testing is that, unlike normal testing process, this testing does not wait for development team to complete the coding first and then doing testing. The coding and testing both goes simultaneously. It requires continuous customer interaction. It works on SDLC ( Systems Development Life Cycle) methodologies, it means that the task is divided into different segments and compiled at the end of the task. **What is the strategy for Automation Test Plan?**

  * The strategy for Automation Test Plan
  * Preparation of Automation Test Plan
  * Recording the scenario
  * Error handler incorporation
  * Script enhancement by inserting check points and looping constructs
  * Debugging the script and fixing the issues
  * Rerunning the script
  * Reporting the result

**What is validation and verification in software testing?** In verification, all the key aspects of software developments are taken in concern like code, specifications, requirements and document plans. Verification is done on the basis of four things list of issues, checklist, walkthroughs and inspection meetings. Following verification, validation is done, it involves actual testing, and all the verification aspects are checked thoroughly in validation. **Explain what is the rule of a “Test Driven Development”?** The rule of a Test Driven Development is to prepare test cases before writing the actual code. Which means you are actually be writing code for the tests before you write code for the application. **Test Case Reviews can be done in three** ways: **Self-review** : It is done by the tester himself who has written the test cases. He can verify whether all the requirements are covered or not by looking into SRS/FRD. **Peer review** : It is done by another tester who hasn’t written those test cases but is familiar with the system under test. Also known as Maker and Checker review. **Review by a supervisor** : It is done by a team lead or manager who is superior to the tester who has written the test cases and has great knowledge about the requirements and system under test. After checking all the above points, reviewer notes down all the changes/modifications required. Now, either he can have a discussion/meeting with the tester or he can send him the mail with the changes noted so that tester can go through them and make all the necessary modifications. 

#
