---
title: "WBT 1"
date: 2014-06-24 04:33:04 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: wbt-1
status: publish
---

1- In a given company, testing is expected to follow a risk-based testing strategy. Assume the project is currently in test execution. For the following tests, the values given represent the test identifier, the risk level, the identifier for the requirement covered by the test, and the current test status, respectively.   Test ID | Risk Level | Requirement ID | Status  
---|---|---|---  
02.007 | Very High | 09:003 | Fail  
02.010 | High | 09:003 | Ready for RUN  
02.019 | Very Low | 09:002 | Pass  
  Which TWO of the following statements are true?   a- The test team might not be following the test strategy, since test 02.010 is higher risk than 02.019. b- If the test plan calls for running at least one test for each requirement as early as possible, the test sequencing might be correct. c- The test sequencing is certainly incorrect, since test 02.010 is higher risk than 02.019. d- The test manager should stop test execution while evaluating all problems that exist with test sequencing. e- Running test 02.019 was a waste of time, because it did not find any defects.   **Answer** :- B and D 2- Which ONE of the following is an accurate summary of the test closure activity “test completion check”?   a- Test completion check ensures that all test work is concluded as planned b- Test completion check ensures that all important lessons learned are documented International c- Test completion check ensures that all test work products are stored in the configuration management system d- Test completion check ensures that plans are established to ensure that good practices can be repeated   **Answer** :- A   3- Which one of the following sorts rows in SQL? 

  1. SORT BY
  2. ALIGN BY
  3. ORDER BY
  4. GROUP BY

**Answer** :- C   4- "_Suppose that X1 , X2 are input fields in web page and if summation of (X1 , X2) = 13 then the system will make discount for the end user_ " Best values "test data" of (X1, X2) to ensure the summation using "**Boundary Value Analysis** " are: a- (X1=4 , x2= 6) , (X1=5 , x2= 3) , (X1=8 , x2= 5) b- (X1=5 , x2= 7) , (X1=9 , x2= 5) , (X1=6 , x2= 7) c- (X1=7 , x2= 6) , (X1=8, x2= 5) , (X1=9 , x2= 4) d- (X1=10 , x2= 3) , (X1=9 , x2= 6) , (X1=8 , x2= 7) **Answer** :- B   5- Which of the following security features can .NET applications avail? 

  1. PIN Security
  2. Code Access Security
  3. Role Based Security
  4. Authentication Security
  5. Biorhythm Security

**Answer** :- B and C   6- Identify error statement from the below code using System; class MyClient { publicstaticvoid Main() { try { throwsnew DivideByZeroException("Invalid Division"); } catch(DivideByZeroException e) { Console.WriteLine("Exception" ); } Console.WriteLine("LAST STATEMENT"); } } **Answer** :- “Exception” and “LAST STATEMENT”   7- What is cyclomatic complexity? Identify cyclomatic complexity of the below code   Publicvoid Cancel() { Num1 = 0; Num2 = 0; Operation = ""; Pie = 3.14; Num5 = 0; Operation1 = ""; Num20 = 0; Numx = 0; OperationStart = ""; PieMore = 3.145; Num6 = 0; Operationnew = ""; }   **Answer** :- 

  * The cyclomatic complexity is the count of the number of linearly independent paths in the source code.
  * 1 is the cyclomatic complexity in the above given source code.

  8- Explain how garbage collection deals with circular references? **Answer** :- Garbage collection is a form of automatic memory management. The garbage collector reclaims garbage, or memory occupied by objects that are no longer in use by the program. It reclaims the memory with the below aspects 

  1. Start with locals, statics and GC pinned objects.
  2. Mark every object which can be reached by traversing the children of these objects
  3. Collect every object which is not marked.

  This allows for circular references to be collected just fine   9- What are methods for disposing of objects which require disposal? **Answer** :- The dispose pattern is used only for objects that access unmanaged resources, such as registry handles, wait handles, or pointers to blocks of unmanaged memory. IDisposable interfaceand an additional Dispose(Boolean) method is used to for implementing this technique.   10- Describe naming convention in c# with example **Answer** :- Naming conventions followed in C# are below Eg:- var currentPerformanceCounterCategory = new System.Diagnostics. PerformanceCounterCategory();   11- What are different methods of session maintenance in ASP.NET? **Answer** :- Below are the methods of session maintainance used in ASP.NET 

     1. In-process storage
     2. Session State Service
     3. Microsoft SQL Server

  12- How do you test an application with over 500 users without using any performance tools? **Answer** :-   We can use the following techniques for testing performance without using direct tools 

  1. Use browser plug-ins or online tools to capture page load times
  2. Ask functional testers and/or user acceptance testers to record their opinion about performance while doing their testing. It may be useful to give them a scale to use, such as "fast, acceptable, tolerable, annoying, unusable."

  13- How to improve performance of .Net application **Answer** :- http://www.codeproject.com/Tips/263166/How-Improve-ASP-net-performence For improving .net application performance we need to consider the following points 

  1. Limit caching

Too many variations of an output cached page can cause an increase in memory usage. We can identify pages that use the output cache by searching for the string “OutputCache”.  
  1. Session state

Minimizing the use of session state increases the performance of our application. This attained by identifying pages that do not use it and disable it for those pages by using EnableSessionState attribute. 
  1. Application state

Use static properties for the application rather than using the state dictionary. It is more efficient to look up a static property than to access the state dictionary.  
  1. Threading and synchronization features?

Avoid manually creating threads in ASP.NET applications. Creating threads is an expensive operation that requires initialization of both managed and unmanaged resources. If you do need additional threads to perform work, use the CLR thread pool. To find places in your code where you are creating threads, search for the string “ThreadStart”.  
  1. Manager Strings efficiently

Use the StringBuilder class to concatenate strings  
  1. Manage exceptions efficiently

Use try/finally on disposable resources.  
  1. Optimized Web pages

Remove redundant white space characters from your HTML. Disable view state for server controls where it is not needed. Avoid long control names. Minimize the use of graphics, and use compressed images.   14- List five Measures/Metrics for monitoring the progress of testing activates? **Answer** :-   Below are the points for monitory progress of testing activities. 

  1. Percentage of work done in test case preparation (or percentage of planned test cases prepared).
  2. Percentage of work done in test environment preparation.
  3. Test case execution (e.g. number of test cases run/not run, and test cases passed/failed).
  4. Defect information (e.g. defect density, defects found and fixed, failure rate and retest results).
  5. Test coverage of requirements, risks or code.

  15- What’s the common used ARCHITECTURE for conducting (Performance, Load and Stress) testing? **Answer** :- Visual studio based load testing framework.   16- What are the benefits of using Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM)? **Answer** :- Benefits of Requirement Traceability matrix are 

     1. Enables us to represent the relationships between requirements artifacts planned for a release.
     2. Ensures "coverage" between features, use cases, requirements, and test cases too.
     3. Quickly add/remove relationships between records in the traceability matrix.

  17- Use the (Decision Table) technique to write all possible test cases….   **Answer** :-   | Rule1 | Rule2 | Rule3 | Rule4  
---|---|---|---|---  
**Conditions** |  |  |  |   
Orders of Star-clients | F | T | T | T  
Orders of Non Star-clients | T | F | F | F  
With Bad credit | T | F | F | T  
Enough product in stock | F | T | F | T  
**Actions** |  |  |  |   
Order status | Rejected | Accepted | Waiting List | Accepted  
|  |  |  |   
  18- Use the (State-Machine) technique to write all possible test cases …       19-   /* if x equal to 3 then increase y by(300 or 200)otherwise increase y by (100) */   public int checker(int x, int y) { if (x == 3) { if (y == 1000) { y = y + 300; x = y * 10 ; } else { y = y + 200; } } else { y = y + 100; x = x + 1; } // return x; return y; }   a- Write only one Test Case that achieve 50 % Statement coverage? **Answer** :- X= 3 AND Y= 1000 b- Write minimum # of Test cases that achieve only 75 % Decision/Branch coverage? **Answer** :- 2 c- How many possible paths in this method? (Mention the used Equation) **Answer** :- 3 d- Write minimum # of Test cases that achieve 100 % path coverage? **Answer** :- 3     20-  | **Use case**  
---  
Manage employees (Admin is trying to add and delete employees)  
Employees Constraints  
| **Constraint** | **Type** | **Status** | **Details**  
---|---|---|---  
Post-condition | Approved | No two employees may have the same name or mobile number or e–mail or IP address in the system.  
| Post-condition | Approved | Mobile number accepts numbers from 9 to 16 digit  
| Post-condition | Approved | Employee Name should be consist of at least 9 alphanumeric characters started with at least 2 character  
| Post-condition | Approved | Age should be in range from 1 to 99  
Manage Employees Scenarios  
| **Scenario** | **Type** | **Detail**  
---|---|---  
Add Employee | Basic Path | 

  1. Admin requests to add new employee to system
  2. System ask to enter employee name, password, mobile number, e-mail, age, gender and IP address
  3. System saves data, notifies admin that addition process is accomplished successfully and operation logged to Log events with the following information
  4. Event date time.
  5. Event details.
  6. System terminates use case.

  
Delete Employee | Alternate Path | 

  1. Admin requests to view employee in system.
  2. System displays a list of employee.
  3. Admin selects one or more employee to be deleted from system.
  4. System displays confirmation message.

4.1. Admin cancels operation. 4.1.1. Go to step 5. 4.2. Admin confirms the deletion operation. 4.2.1. System deletes employee(s) and operation logged to log events with the following information: 
  1. Event date time.
  2. Event details.
  3. System terminates use case.

  
**** a- Write all possible System Test Cases. b- Write all possible System Test Procedures. **Answer** :-  TC_ID | Description | Expected output | Actual Output | Pass/Fail | Remarks  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
TC_001 | Login as admin and Add new employee by entering same name in the system. | Should throw Name already existing validation message |  |  |   
TC_002 | Login as admin and Add new employee by entering same mobile number in the system. | Should throw Mobile already existing validation message |  |  |   
TC_003 | Login as admin and Add new employee by entering different mobile number but more than 9 to 16 digits in the system. | Should throw mobile no validation message |  |  |   
TC_004 | Login as admin and Add new employee by entering same e–mail in the system. | Should throw e-mail already existing validation message |  |  |   
TC_005 | Login as admin and Add new employee by entering same IP address in the system. | Should throw IP address already existing validation message |  |  |   
TC_006 | Login as admin and Add new employee by entering different name and mobile number and e–mail and IP address in the system. | Employee should be added into the system |  |  |   
TC_007 | Login as admin and select employee to be deleted from the list and confirm delete operation. | Employee should be deleted from the system |  |  |
