---
title: "Selenium"
date: 2014-03-12 06:54:51 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: selenium
status: publish
---

====================================== Documentation 

  1. https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/selenium-users
  2. http://code.google.com/p/selenium/wiki/FurtherResources
  3. http://docs.seleniumhq.org/docs/index.jsp

====================================== <http://softwaretestersadda.blogspot.in/2013/02/selenium-interview-questions-with.html> <http://www.seleniumtests.com/p/selenium-interview-questions.html> <http://www.gcreddy.com/2012/10/selenium-interview-questions.html> <http://www.studyselenium.com/2013/12/100-selenium-interview-questions.html> <http://www.atoziq.com/2012/05/selenium-interview-questions-java.html> Ref: http://www.seleniumtests.com/p/selenium-interview-questions.html CSS and Xpath Selectors  Category | Xpath Selector | Css Selector | Description  
---|---|---|---  
Class | //div[@class='example']//a | css=div.example a |   
Id | //div[@id='example']//a | css=div#example a |   
Child or subchild | //div//a | css=div a |   
Direct child | //div/a | css=div > a |   
Next sibling | //input[contains(text(), 'username')]/following-sibling::section/input | css=form input.username + input |   
Attribute values | //input[@name='username'] | css=form input[name='username'] | We can easily select the username element without adding a class or an id to the element.  
|  | css=input[name='continue'][type='button'] | We can even add chain filters to be more specific with our selections.  
Choosing a specific match |  | css=ul#recordlist li:nth-of-type(4) |   
|  | css=ul#recordlist li:nth-child(4) |   
|  | css=ul#recordlist *:nth-child(4) |   
|  |  |   
|  |  |   
Sub-string matches |  |  |   
^= Match a prefix |  | css=a[id^='id_prefix_'] | A link with an “id” that starts with the text “id_prefix_”  
$= Match a suffix |  | css=a[id$='_id_sufix'] | A link with an “id” that ends with the text “_id_sufix”  
*= Match a substring |  | css=a[id*='id_pattern'] | A link with an “id” that contains the text “id_pattern”  
Matching by inner text |  | css=a:contains('Log Out') | :contains() will match elements with the desired text block:  
**Selenium WebdDriver - What is the difference between getWindowhandles() and getwindowhandle() ?** getwindowhandles(): It is used to get the address of all the open browser and its return type is iterator getwindowhandle(): It is used to get the address of the current browser where the control is and return type is string **How to scroll web element?--not browser—** FirefoxProfile profile=new FirefoxProfile(); profile.setEnableNativeEvents(true); WebDriver driver=new FirefoxDriver(profile); driver.navigate("http://jqueryui.com/draggable/"); Thread.sleep(6000L); WebElement element=driver.findElement(By.xpath("//div[@id='draggable']")); Actions actn=new Actions(driver); actn.dragAndDropBy(element, 50, 50).build().perform(); } **Selenium WebDriver - What is testing strategy ?** A Test Strategy document is a high level document and normally developed by project manager. This document defines “Software Testing Approach” to achieve testing objectives. The Test Strategy is normally derived from the Business Requirement Specification document **Fluent Wait(.Net)** DefaultWait<IWebDriver> flwait = new DefaultWait<IWebDriver>(driver); flwait.Timeout = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(20); flwait.PollingInterval = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(1); flwait.IgnoreExceptionTypes(typeof(NoSuchElementException), typeof(NoSuchFrameException), typeof(NoSuchWindowException)); IWebElement ell = flwait.Until(ExpectedConditions.ElementToBeClickable(By.Id("elemID"))); ell.Submit(); 

# Difference Between Implicit, Explicit and Fluent Wait

**Implicit Wait:** During Implicit wait if the Web Driver cannot find it immediately because of its availability, the WebDriver will wait for mentioned time and it will not try to find the element again during the specified time period. Once the specified time is over, it will try to search the element once again the last time before throwing exception. The default setting is zero. Once we set a time, the Web Driver waits for the period of the WebDriver object instance. **Explicit Wait:** There can be instance when a particular element takes more than a minute to load. In that case you definitely not like to set a huge time to Implicit wait, as if you do this your browser will going to wait for the same time for every element. To avoid that situation you can simply put a separate time on the required element only. By following this your browser implicit wait time would be short for every element and it would be large for specific element. **Fluent Wait:** Let’s say you have an element which sometime appears in just 1 second and some time it takes minutes to appear. In that case it is better to use fluent wait, as this will try to find element again and again until it find it or until the final timer runs out. **Solutions:** We always get confuse when it comes to using Wait commands, to better understand it we need to remember that there is a difference between several scenarios: An element not being present at all in the DOM. An element being present in the DOM but not visible. An element being present in the DOM but not enabled. (i.e. clickable) There are pages which get displayed with the **JavaScript** , the elements are already present in the browser **DOM** , but are not visible. The implicit wait only waits for an element to appear in the DOM, so it returns immediately, but when you try to interact with the element you get a**NoSuchElementException**. You could test this hypothesis by writing a helper method that explicit wait for an element to be visible or clickable. 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 |  public WebElement getWhenVisible(By locator, int timeout) { WebElement element = null; WebDriverWait wait = new WebDriverWait(driver, timeout); element = wait.until(ExpectedConditions.visibilityOfElementLocated(locator)); return element; }  
---|---  
  
 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 |  public void clickWhenReady(By locator, int timeout) { WebElement element = null; WebDriverWait wait = new WebDriverWait(driver, timeout); element = wait.until(ExpectedConditions.elementToBeClickable(locator)); element.click(); }  
---|---  
  
# Find Broken / Invalid Images on a Page

Let us look into the example : 
    
    
    Java Example
    public class FindBrokenImages {
    
    	private WebDriver driver;
    	private int invalidImageCount;
    
    	@BeforeClass
    	public void setUp() {
    		driver = new FirefoxDriver();
    		driver.get("[http://google.com"](<http://google.com/>));
    	}
    
    	@Test
    	public void validateInvalidImages() {
    		try {
    			invalidImageCount = 0;
    			List<WebElement> imagesList = driver.findElements(By.tagName("img"));
    			System.out.println("Total no. of images are " + imagesList.size());
    			for (WebElement imgElement : imagesList) {
    				if (imgElement != null) {
    					verifyimageActive(imgElement);
    				}
    			}
    			System.out.println("Total no. of invalid images are "	+ invalidImageCount);
    		} catch (Exception e) {
    			e.printStackTrace();
    			System.out.println(e.getMessage());
    		}
    	}
    
    	@AfterClass
    	public void tearDown() {
    		if (driver != null)
    			driver.quit();
    	}
    
    	public void verifyimageActive(WebElement imgElement) {
    		try {
    			HttpClient client = HttpClientBuilder.create().build();
    			HttpGet request = new HttpGet(imgElement.getAttribute("src"));
    			HttpResponse response = client.execute(request);
    			// verifying response code he HttpStatus should be 200 if not,
    			// increment as invalid images count
    			if (response.getStatusLine().getStatusCode() != 200)
    				invalidImageCount++;
    		} catch (Exception e) {
    			e.printStackTrace();
    		}
    	}
    }
    **C# Example**
    public void CheckForBrokenImages()
     {
     var imageElements = driver.FindElements(FindBy.TagName("img"));
    
     foreach(var imageElement in imageElements)
     VerifyImage(imageElement);
    
     Assert.That(invalidImageCount == 0,
     "Some of the Images are not loaded properly/broken, Total Images :{0} \n Broken Image count :{1}", 
     imageElements.Count(), invalidImageCount);
    
     Assert.Pass("All Images are proper, Total Images :{0} \n Broken Image count :{1}",
     imageElements.Count(), invalidImageCount);
     }
    
     private void VerifyImage(IWebElement imageElement)
     {
     var client = new HttpClient { BaseAddress = baseUri };
     var src = imageElement.GetAttribute("src");
     HttpResponseMessage response = client.GetAsync(src).Result; 
     if (response.StatusCode != System.Net.HttpStatusCode.OK)
     invalidImageCount++;
     }
    

**Selenium SwitchTo() methods**

  * **driver.switchto().defaultcontent()**
  * **driver.switchto().frame**

Using cssSelector, 
    
    
    driver.switchTo().frame(driver.findElement(By.cssSelector("iframe[title='Fill Quote']")));

WebDriver's [`driver.switchTo().frame()`](<http://selenium.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/WebDriver.TargetLocator.html>) method takes one of the three possible arguments: 

  * [A previously found `WebElement`.](<http://selenium.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/WebDriver.TargetLocator.html#frame%28org.openqa.selenium.WebElement%29>)

> Select a frame using its previously located WebElement.

  * [A name or ID.](<http://selenium.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/WebDriver.TargetLocator.html#frame%28java.lang.String%29>)

> Select a frame by its name or ID. Frames located by matching name attributes are always given precedence over those matched by ID.

  * [A number.](<http://selenium.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/WebDriver.TargetLocator.html#frame%28int%29>)

> Select a frame by its (zero-based) index. That is, if a page has three frames, the first frame would be at index `0`, the second at index `1` and the third at index `2`. Once the frame has been selected, all subsequent calls on the WebDriver interface are made to that frame.

  * **driver.switchto().alert()**
  * public boolean isAlertPresent() {
        
          boolean presentFlag = false;
        
          try {
        
           // Check the presence of alert
           Alert alert = driver.switchTo().alert();
           // Alert present; set the flag
           presentFlag = true;
           // if present consume the alert
           alert.accept();
        
          } catch (NoAlertPresentException ex) {
           // Alert not present
           ex.printStackTrace();
          }
        
          return presentFlag;
        
         }

  * **driver.switchto().window()**


    
    
    string windowHandle = driver.CurrentWindowHandle;
    
    
    // Switch back to the main page using the original window handle:
    driver.SwitchTo().Window(windowHandle);

can switch between windows as below: 
    
    
    // Store the current window handle
    String winHandleBefore = driver.getWindowHandle();
    
    // Perform the click operation that opens new window
    
    // Switch to new window opened
    for(String winHandle : driver.getWindowHandles()){
        driver.switchTo().window(winHandle);
    }
    
    // Perform the actions on new window
    
    // Close the new window, if that window no more required
    driver.close();
    
    // Switch back to original browser (first window)
    driver.switchTo().window(winHandleBefore);
    
    // Continue with original browser (first window)

**Selenium verification and assertion?** A: A verification check lets test execution continue even in the wake of failure with check, while assertion stops the test execution. Consider an example of checking text on page, you may like to use verification point and let test execution continue even if text is not present. But for a login page, you would like to add assertion for presence of text box login as it does not make sense continuing with test execution if login text box is not present. When a "verify" command fails then test will continue executing and logging the failure. Verify is best used to check non critical things. Like hte presence of a headline element. **There are tons of Selenium Command, am I going to use all of them** This entirely boils down to operations you are carrying out with Selenium. Though you would definitely be using following Selenium Commands more often – Open: opens a web page. click/clickAndWait: click on an element and waits for a new page to load. Select: Selects a value from a drop down value. verifyTitle/assertTitle: verifies/asserts page title. verify/assert ElementPresent: verifies/asserts presence of element, in the page. verify/assert TextPresent verifies/asserts expected text is somewhere on the page. **How to use screen coordinate while using click command? When want to click at specific part of page element.** We would need to use clickAT command to achieve. clickAt command accepts element locator and x, y coordinates as arguments **Can you show me one code example of setting Selenium 2.0?** Here is java example of initializing firefox driver and using Google Search engine – protected webDriver driver; driver = new FirefoxDriver(); driver.get("https://www.google.com"); driver.findElement(By.name("username")).sendKeys("Test"); driver.findElement(By.id("login")).click(); **Can I navigate back and forth in a browser in Selenium 2.0?** driver.navigate().forward(); driver.navigate().back(); driver.navigate().refresh(); **What is the order of fastest browser implementation for WebDriver?** HTMLUnitDriver is the fastest browser implementation as it does not involves interaction with a browser, This is followed by Firefox driver and then IE driver which is slower than FF driver and runs only on Windows.
