---
title: "Selenium 2"
date: 2015-06-22 03:51:15 
author: shajeebhameed
layout: page
slug: selenium-2
status: publish
---

* http://www.seleniumhq.org/docs/04_webdriver_advanced.jsp#explicit-and-implicit-waits
  * http://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/selenium-framework-design-selenium-tutorial-21/



# 

**How can I read test data from excels?** Test data can efficiently be read from excel using JXL or POI API. [See detailed tutorial here](<http://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/selenium-framework-design-selenium-tutorial-21/> "http://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/selenium-framework-design-selenium-tutorial-21/"). **What are the advantages of Automation framework?** **Advantage of[Test Automation framework](<http://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/test-automation-frameworks-selenium-tutorial-20/> "Automation frameworks")**

  * Reusability of code
  * Maximum coverage
  * Recovery scenario
  * Low cost maintenance
  * Minimal manual intervention
  * Easy Reporting

**How to capture screenshot in WebDriver?**

`1` | `import` `org.junit.After;`  
---|---  
  
`2` | `import` `org.junit.Before;`  
---|---  
  
`3` | `import` `org.junit.Test;`  
---|---  
  
`4` | `import` `java.io.File;`  
---|---  
  
`5` | `import` `java.io.IOException;`  
---|---  
  
`6` | `import` `org.apache.commons.io.FileUtils;`  
---|---  
  
`7` | `import` `org.openqa.selenium.OutputType;`  
---|---  
  
`8` | `import` `org.openqa.selenium.TakesScreenshot;`  
---|---  
  
`9` | `import` `org.openqa.selenium.WebDriver;`  
---|---  
  
`10` | `import` `org.openqa.selenium.firefox.FirefoxDriver;`  
---|---  
  
`11` |   
---|---  
  
`12` | `public` `class` `CaptureScreenshot {`  
---|---  
  
`13` | ` ``WebDriver driver;`  
---|---  
  
`14` | ` ``@Before`  
---|---  
  
`15` | ` ``public` `void` `setUp() ``throws` `Exception {`  
---|---  
  
`16` | ` ``driver = ``new` `FirefoxDriver();`  
---|---  
  
`17` | ` ``driver.get(``"https://google.com"``);`  
---|---  
  
`18` | ` ``}`  
---|---  
  
`19` | ` ``@After`  
---|---  
  
`20` | ` ``public` `void` `tearDown() ``throws` `Exception {`  
---|---  
  
`21` | ` ``driver.quit();`  
---|---  
  
`22` | ` ``}`  
---|---  
  
`23` |   
---|---  
  
`24` | ` ``@Test`  
---|---  
  
`25` | ` ``public` `void` `test() ``throws` `IOException {`  
---|---  
  
`26` | ` ``// Code to capture the screenshot`  
---|---  
  
`27` | `File scrFile = ((TakesScreenshot)driver).getScreenshotAs(OutputType.FILE);`  
---|---  
  
`28` | ` ``// Code to copy the screenshot in the desired location`  
---|---  
  
`29` | `FileUtils.copyFile(scrFile, ``new``File(``"C:\\CaptureScreenshot\\google.jpg"``)); `  
---|---  
  
`30` | ` ``}`  
---|---  
  
`31` | `}`  
---|---  
  
**Q #38)****What is Junit?** [Junit](<http://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/selenium-junit-framework-selenium-tutorial-11/> "JUnit Tutorial") is a unit testing framework introduced by Apache. Junit is based on Java. **Q #39) What are Junit annotations?** Following are the Junit Annotations: 

  * **@Test:** Annotation lets the system know that the method annotated as @Test is a test method. There can be multiple test methods in a single test script.
  * **@Before:** Method annotated as @Before lets the system know that this method shall be executed every time before each of the test method.
  * **@After:** Method annotated as @After lets the system know that this method shall be executed every time after each of the test method.
  * **@BeforeClass:** Method annotated as @BeforeClass lets the system know that this method shall be executed once before any of the test method.
  * **@AfterClass:** Method annotated as @AfterClass lets the system know that this method shall be executed once after any of the test method.
  * **@Ignore:** Method annotated as @Ignore lets the system know that this method shall not be executed.

**How to retrieve css properties of an element?** The values of the css properties can be retrieved using a get() method: **Syntax:** _driver.findElement(By.id(__“id_ _“)).getCssValue(__“name of css attribute”_ _);_ _driver.findElement(By.id(__“id_ _“)).getCssValue(__“font-size”_ _);_ **How to mouse hover on a web element using WebDriver?** WebDriver offers a wide range of interaction utilities that the user can exploit to automate mouse and keyboard events. Action Interface is one such utility which simulates the single user interactions. Thus, In the following scenario, we have used Action Interface to mouse hover on a drop down which then opens a list of options. **Sample Code:**

`1` | `// Instantiating Action Interface`  
---|---  
  
`2` | `Actions actions=``new` `Actions(driver);`  
---|---  
  
`3` | `// howering on the dropdown`  
---|---  
  
`4` | `actions.moveToElement(driver.findElement(By.id(``"id of the dropdown"``))).perform();`  
---|---  
  
`5` | `// Clicking on one of the items in the list options`  
---|---  
  
`6` | `WebElement subLinkOption=driver.findElement(By.id(``"id of the sub link"``));`  
---|---  
  
`7` | `subLinkOption.click();`  
---|---  
  
# 

**How to assert title of the web page?** _//verify the title of the web page_ _assertTrue(“The title of the window is incorrect.”,driver.getTitle().equals(“Title of the page”));_ **How can we handle windows based pop up?** Selenium is an automation testing tool which supports only web application testing, that means, it doesn’t support testing of windows based applications. However Selenium alone can’t help the situation but along with some third party intervention, this problem can be overcome. There are several third party tools available for handling window based pop ups along with the selenium like AutoIT, Robot class etc. **How can we handle web based pop up?** WebDriver offers the users with a very efficient way to [handle these pop ups using Alert interface](<http://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/handle-alerts-popups-selenium-webdriver-selenium-tutorial-16/> "Handling alerts using WebDriver"). There are the four methods that we would be using along with the Alert interface. 

  * void dismiss() – The accept() method clicks on the “Cancel” button as soon as the pop up window appears.
  * void accept() – The accept() method clicks on the “Ok” button as soon as the pop up window appears.
  * String getText() – The getText() method returns the text displayed on the alert box.
  * void sendKeys(String stringToSend) – The sendKeys() method enters the specified string pattern into the alert box.

**Syntax:** _// accepting javascript alert_ _Alert alert = driver.switchTo().alert();_ _alert.accept();_ **What is the difference between driver.close() and driver.quit command?** **close()** : WebDriver’s close() method closes the web browser window that the user is currently working on or we can also say the window that is being currently accessed by the WebDriver. The command neither requires any parameter nor does is return any value. **quit()** : Unlike close() method, quit() method closes down all the windows that the program has opened. Same as close() method, the command neither requires any parameter nor does is return any value. **How to find more than one web element in the list?** At times, we may come across elements of same type like multiple hyperlinks, images etc arranged in an ordered or unordered list. Thus, it makes absolute sense to deal with such elements by a single piece of code and this can be done using WebElement List. **Sample Code**

`1` | `// Storing the list`  
---|---  
  
`2` | `List <WebElement> elementList = driver.findElements(By.xpath(``"//div[@id='example']//ul//li"``));`  
---|---  
  
`3` | `// Fetching the size of the list`  
---|---  
  
`4` | `int` `listSize = elementList.size();`  
---|---  
  
`5` | `for` `(``int` `i=``0``; i<listSize; i++)`  
---|---  
  
`6` | `{`  
---|---  
  
`7` | `// Clicking on each service provider link`  
---|---  
  
`8` | `serviceProviderLinks.get(i).click();`  
---|---  
  
`9` | `// Navigating back to the previous page that stores link to service providers`  
---|---  
  
`10` | `driver.navigate().back();`  
---|---  
  
`11` | `}`  
---|---  
  
**When do we use findElement() and findElements()?** **findElement():** findElement() is used to find the first element in the current web page matching to the specified locator value. Take a note that only first matching element would be fetched.**** **Syntax:** _WebElement element =__driver_ _.findElements(By.xpath(__“//div[@id=’example’]//ul//li”_ _));_ **findElements():** findElements() is used to find all the elements in the current web page matching to the specified locator value. Take a note that all the matching elements would be fetched and stored in the list of WebElements. **Syntax:** _List <WebElement> elementList =__driver_ _.findElements(By.xpath(__“//div[@id=’example’]//ul//li”_ _));_ **How to[handle frame in WebDriver](<http://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/selenium-tutorial-18/> "Handling frames in Selenium")?** An inline frame acronym as iframe is used to insert another document with in the current HTML document or simply a web page into a web page by enabling nesting. **Select iframe by id** _driver_ _.switchTo().frame(__“_ _ID of the frame_ _“_ _);_ **Locating iframe using tagName** _driver.switchTo().frame(driver.findElements(By.tagName(“iframe”).get(0));_ **Locating iframe using index** **frame(index)** _driver.switchTo().frame(0);_

\------------ 

**frame(Name of Frame)** _driver.switchTo().frame(“name of the frame”);_ **frame(WebElement element)** **Select Parent Window** _driver.switchTo().defaultContent();_ **How to click on a hyper link using linkText?****__** _driver_ _.findElement(By.linkText(__“Google”_ _)).click();_ The command finds the element using link text and then click on that element and thus the user would be re-directed to the corresponding page. The above mentioned link can also be accessed by using the following command. _driver_ _.findElement(By.partialLinkText(__“Goo”_ _)).click();_ The above command find the element based on the substring of the link provided in the parenthesis and thus partialLinkText() finds the web element with the specified substring and then clicks on it. **How to select value in a dropdown?** Value in the drop down can be selected using WebDriver’s Select class. **Syntax:** **selectByValue:** _Select selectByValue =_**_new_** _Select(__driver_ _.findElement(By.id(__“SelectID_One”_ _)));_ _selectByValue.selectByValue(__“greenvalue”_ _);_ **selectByVisibleText:** _Select selectByVisibleText =_**_new_** _Select (__driver_ _.findElement(By.id(__“SelectID_Two”_ _)));_ _selectByVisibleText.selectByVisibleText(__“Lime”_ _);_ **selectByIndex:** _Select selectByIndex =_**_new_** _Select(__driver_ _.findElement(By.id(__“SelectID_Three”_ _)));_ _selectByIndex.selectByIndex(2);_ **How can we get a text of a web element?** Get command is used to retrieve the inner text of the specified web element. The command doesn’t require any parameter but returns a string value. It is also one of the extensively used commands for verification of messages, labels, errors etc displayed on the web pages. **Syntax:** _String Text = driver.findElement(By.id(“Text”)).getText();_ **How can you find if an element in displayed on the screen?** WebDriver facilitates the user with the following methods to check the visibility of the web elements. These web elements can be buttons, drop boxes, checkboxes, radio buttons, labels etc. 

  1. isDisplayed()
  2. isSelected()
  3. isEnabled()

**Syntax:** **isDisplayed():** **_boolean_** _buttonPresence = driver.findElement(By.id(__“gbqfba”_ _)).isDisplayed();_ **isSelected():** **_boolean_** _buttonSelected = driver.findElement(By.id(__“gbqfba”_ _)).isDisplayed();_**** **isEnabled():** **_boolean_** _searchIconEnabled = driver.findElement(By.id(__“gbqfb”_ _)).isEnabled();_

# [The waitForCommand in AJAX applications](<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/16816019/identify-objects-in-selenium>)

## 

In AJAX driven web applications, data is retrieved from server without refreshing the page. Using _andWait_ commands will not work as the page is not actually refreshed. Pausing the test execution for a certain period of time is also not a good approach as web element might appear later or earlier than the stipulated period depending on the system’s responsiveness, load or other uncontrolled factors of the moment, leading to test failures. The best approach would be to wait for the needed element in a dynamic period and then continue the execution as soon as the element is found. This is done using _waitFor_ commands, as _waitForElementPresent_ or _waitForVisible_ , which wait dynamically, checking for the desired condition every second and continuing to the next command in the script as soon as the condition is met. 

#  [Identify objects using selenium](<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/16816019/identify-objects-in-selenium>)

Selenium webdriver uses 8 locators to find the elements on web page. The following are the list of object identifier or locators supported by selenium. We have prioritized the list of locators to be used when scripting. 1\. id 2\. Name 3\. Linktext 4\. Partial Linktext 5\. Tag Name 6\. class name 7\. Css 8\. xpath I record a simple step of clicking on the “Google Search” button on the home page. If you can convert the recorded test step to Java – JUnit 4 – WebDriver (Options -> Format -> JUnit 4 – WebDriver), the code for clicking the “Google Search” button using ID attribute would look like this -   driver.findElement(By.**id**("gbqfba")).click(); Similarly for name   driver.findElement(By.**name**("btnK")).click(); For cssSelector driver.findElement(By.**cssSelector**("#gbqfba")).click(); For Xpath Attributes driver.findElement(By.**xpath**("//button[@id='gbqfba']")).click(); For Xpath Relative driver.findElement(By.**xpath**("//div[@id='gbqfbwa']/button")).click(); For Xpath Position / Absolute driver.findElement(By.**xpath**("//div[2]/button")).click(); **selectByVisibleText** new Select(driver.findElement(By.id("mm"))).selectByVisibleText("January"); **selectByIndex** **** new Select(driver.findElement(By.id("gender"))).selectByIndex(1); **selectByVisibleText** new Select(driver.findElement(By.id("language"))).selectByVisibleText("español"); 

# [How to handle windows file upload using selenium webdriver?](<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/11256732/how-to-handle-windows-file-upload-using-selenium-webdriver>)
    
    
    // assuming driver is a healthy WebDriver instance
    WebElement fileInput = driver.findElement(By.name("uploadfile"));
    fileInput.sendKeys("C:/path/to/file.jpg");
    

Hey, that's mine from somewhere :). 

* * *

In case of the **Zamzar** web, it should work perfectly. You _don't click_ the element. You just type the path into it. To be concrete, this should be absolutely ok: 
    
    
    driver.findElement(By.id("inputFile")).sendKeys("C:/path/to/file.jpg");
    

* * *

In the case of the **Uploadify** web, you're in a pickle, since the upload thing is no `input`, but a Flash object. There's no API for WebDriver that would allow you to work with browser dialogs (or Flash objects). So after you click the Flash element, there'll be a window popping up that you'll have no control over. In the browsers and operating systems I know, you can pretty much assume that after the window has been opened, the cursor is in the `File name` input. Please, make sure this assumption is true in your case, too. If not, you could try to jump to it by pressing `Alt + N`, at least on Windows... If yes, you can "blindly" type the path into it using the [`Robot`](<http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/awt/Robot.html>) class. In your case, that would be something in the way of: 
    
    
    driver.findElement(By.id("SWFUpload_0")).click();
    Robot r = new Robot();
    r.keyPress(KeyEvent.VK_C);        // C
    r.keyRelease(KeyEvent.VK_C);
    r.keyPress(KeyEvent.VK_COLON);    // : (colon)
    r.keyRelease(KeyEvent.VK_COLON);
    r.keyPress(KeyEvent.VK_SLASH);    // / (slash)
    r.keyRelease(KeyEvent.VK_SLASH);
    // etc. for the whole file path
    
    r.keyPress(KeyEvent.VK_ENTER);    // confirm by pressing Enter in the end
    r.keyRelease(KeyEvent.VK_ENTER);

# [Browser Plugin Testing With Selenium](<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15005833/browser-plugin-testing-with-selenium>)

The answer is **Yes** , Selenium 2 supports (remote) installation of browser extensions. The Chrome and Firefox WebDriver support the installation of extensions, remotely. Here's sample code for Chrome and Firefox: 

## Chrome
    
    
    File file = new File("extension.crx"); // zip files are also accepted
    ChromeOptions options = new ChromeOptions();
    options.addExtensions(file);
    
    // Option 1: Locally.
    WebDriver driver = new ChromeDriver(options);
    
    // Option 2: Remotely
    DesiredCapabilities capabilities = DesiredCapabilities.chrome();
    capabilities.setCapability(ChromeOptions.CAPABILITY, options);
    WebDriver driver = new RemoteWebDriver(new URL("http://localhost:4444/wd/hub"), capabilities);

## Firefox
    
    
    File file = new File("extension.xpi");
    FirefoxProfile firefoxProfile = new FirefoxProfile();
    firefoxProfile.addExtension(file);
    
    // Option 1: Locally
    WebDriver driver = new FirefoxDriver(firefoxProfile);
    
    // Option 2: Remotely
    DesiredCapabilities capabilities = DesiredCapabilities.firefox();
    capabilities.setCapability(FirefoxDriver.PROFILE, firefoxProfile);
    WebDriver driver = new RemoteWebDriver(new URL("http://localhost:4444/wd/hub"), capabilities);

* * *

 

# [How to save and restore all cookies with Selenium RC?](<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3265062/how-to-save-and-restore-all-cookies-with-selenium-rc>)

Using `getCookie`, `getCookieByName` and `createCookie` methods 

# [How do you reuse cookies between SeleniumRC sessions?](<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5771840/how-do-you-reuse-cookies-between-seleniumrc-sessions>)

Selenium server starts new profile for browser everytime, so your saved cookies and bookmarks do not exist on this profile. Firefox saves your personal information such as bookmarks, passwords, and user preferences in a set of files called your [profile](<https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/profiles-where-firefox-stores-user-data>), which is stored in a separate location from the Firefox program files. then bundle this profile to your selenium server like this 
    
    
    SeleniumServer server = new SeleniumServer();
    RemoteControlConfiguration rcc = new RemoteControlConfiguration();
    //rcc.setPort(4444);
    File newFirefoxProfileTemplate = new File(ReadConFile.readcoFile("fiefoxProfilePath"));
    
    rcc.setFirefoxProfileTemplate(newFirefoxProfileTemplate);
    server = new SeleniumServer(rcc);
    server.start();
    DefaultSelenium selenium = new DefaultSelenium("localhost", 4444, "*chrome",ReadConFile.readcoFile("serverName"));
    

to know your firefoxTemplate click [this](<http://kb.mozillazine.org/Profile_folder_-_Firefox>) After doing this, manually open browser for this profile and save your cookies, bookmarks , certificates(very helpful for https).    

## Explicit and Implicit Waits

Waiting is having the automated task execution elapse a certain amount of time before continuing with the next step. You should choose to use Explicit Waits or Implicit Waits. WARNING: Do not mix implicit and explicit waits. Doing so can cause unpredictable wait times. For example setting an implicit wait of 10s and an explicit wait of 15 seconds, could cause a timeout to occur after 20 seconds. 

### Explicit Waits

An explicit waits is code you define to wait for a certain condition to occur before proceeding further in the code. The worst case of this is Thread.sleep(), which sets the condition to an exact time period to wait. There are some convenience methods provided that help you write code that will wait only as long as required. WebDriverWait in combination with ExpectedCondition is one way this can be accomplished. 
    
    
    WebDriver driver = new FirefoxDriver();
    driver.get("http://somedomain/url_that_delays_loading");
    WebElement myDynamicElement = (new WebDriverWait(driver, 10))
      .until(ExpectedConditions.presenceOfElementLocated(By.id("myDynamicElement")));
    

This waits up to 10 seconds before throwing a TimeoutException or if it finds the element will return it in 0 - 10 seconds. WebDriverWait by default calls the ExpectedCondition every 500 milliseconds until it returns successfully. A successful return is for ExpectedCondition type is Boolean return true or not null return value for all other ExpectedCondition types. This example is also functionally equivalent to the first [Implicit Waits](<http://www.seleniumhq.org/docs/04_webdriver_advanced.jsp#implicit-waits>) example. 

#### Expected Conditions

There are some common conditions that are frequently come across when automating web browsers. Listed below are Implementations of each. Java happens to have convienence methods so you don’t have to code an ExpectedCondition class yourself or create your own utility package for them. 

  * Element is Clickable - it is Displayed and Enabled.


    
    
    WebDriverWait wait = new WebDriverWait(driver, 10);
    WebElement element = wait.until(ExpectedConditions.elementToBeClickable(By.id("someid")));
    

The ExpectedConditions package ([Java](<https://seleniumhq.github.io/selenium/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/support/ui/ExpectedConditions.html>)) ([Python](<https://seleniumhq.github.io/selenium/docs/api/py/webdriver_support/selenium.webdriver.support.expected_conditions.html>)) ([.NET](<https://seleniumhq.github.io/selenium/docs/api/dotnet/html/AllMembers_T_OpenQA_Selenium_Support_UI_ExpectedConditions.htm>)) contains a set of predefined conditions to use with WebDriverWait. 

### Implicit Waits

An implicit wait is to tell WebDriver to poll the DOM for a certain amount of time when trying to find an element or elements if they are not immediately available. The default setting is 0. Once set, the implicit wait is set for the life of the WebDriver object instance. 
    
    
    WebDriver driver = new FirefoxDriver();
    driver.manage().timeouts().implicitlyWait(10, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
    driver.get("http://somedomain/url_that_delays_loading");
    WebElement myDynamicElement = driver.findElement(By.id("myDynamicElement"));
